

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

.K§{2€
hichaol Chekhov February 17. 19$2
Sncond anon Lecture to Actors Held at
"Actoro' Scrv co," New York
Given by Michael Chekhov
THE THEATRE OF THE FUTURE
THE ACTOR IS THE THEATRE
”LIFE" ON THE STAGE
DIMENSION OF SHAKESPEARE'S CHARACTERS
MATERIALISN - THE CLICKS IN ACTING
THE ACTOR'S TECHNIQUE
ATEOSPHEHE ‘ '
THE LIVING PERSORMAHCE
WHAT THE AUDIﬂiGE NEEDS
THE IBmGINARY AUDIENCE
THE CREATIVE PROCESS - FOUR STAGES ~
INSPIRATION . TWO STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Crook
Don Quixote.
Goethe
mmlct
Hitler
THE THEATRE OF THE FUTURE:
our theme in thc'thcatro of the future - 5 very
broad theme. Wu can opproach it from on many points of View,
but we must choouo one of them. I think that if we speak
about the theatre of the future from tho point of View of
tho actor of the future, then we can one more things than if
we were to choose another approach-
THE ACTOR IS THE THEATRE:
I think the theatre consiuts of the actor and that
is all. Hobody also is important in the theatre. from my
point of view. If the actor in not there, then there is no
theatre. All that the director, the author. the designer do

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

m. Chekhov February 17. 19h2
will not make a theatre.
Therefore, I think the actor in the one who has to
worry about the theatre. and to create a new one. And we can
help him by our belief in his ability to create the theatre
of the future. I mean we. the audience. and his colleagues
and friends. or course. it will be difficult for him because
there are so many things which stop the actor's doveIOpmcnt
in our times. For instance. tho box office in a very pleasant
place. but it in disturbing. The actor cannot concentrate on
him profenoion if the box office says stop or start. But
the actor. and_only the actor. can overcome even this difficulty.
I think a group of actors. of "pioneers.” will very
soon find each other and really uturt to fight. But how? Not
to change things which cannot be changed ouch an cloning tho
box office, but to train themselves: and if they are patient
enough to train themoolvon. then the audience will become
convinced that tharo is something now going on. and the audi-
ence will decido everything - even about the box office.
”LIFE" ON THE STAGE:
Now let me say what the actor can do for this future
ideal thentre. Actors ovenywhere - I was once an actor myself,
and the negative thingo I am going to say to you I say about
myself as wall - we actors are blind to certain things on
uhieh we actually stand. or should stand. and feel ourselves
on firm ground. One of the moot important of these things is

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

‘99:»
M. Chekhov February 17. 1942
that we have lost the canoe for "life.“ In a minute I will
tell you what I mean by this term "life." We don't see
life and we hate to portray life on the stage. All these
difficulties we have on the stage, 311 the clichés are signs
that no hove no real connection with life. and no substitute
it with deed forms. I am convinced that each one of us
actoro in much richer. much more talented than we sometimes
soomﬂto be. But we don‘t dieccxr ourselvcopand, therefore{
we think we have to use different clichﬁu and mannegisns, and
all the things which are no obviouuly false. we cannot de-
ceive our audience with thin bad imitation of life. We nhew
thom‘thingo which mahe ue unhappy.
What is this "life" which the actor of the future
will try to find n connection to? All the events which we
actors one around uo. all the events are only an outer ox—
preonion of something which makes these thinge. which moveu
them. develops them. etc.. and this second level is the
"life." For instance. let us look at a tree or'a plant and
try to imagine what happens in this plant which makes it into
a plant. This in the "life" — not an abstract life, because
abstract life means nothing — but the real power which in
there working now. The power which in quite obviously directed
from the ground up to the leaveo, and even above them and
around thema This is not life or power in general. it is a
special kind of power which forms and molde this kind of plant.

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
E. Chekhov February 17. 1942
now let uo imagine an oak. for instance. and com—
pare the plant with the oak. We must see that there is a
different kind of life in the oak tree because the leaves
are different. the size is different and so on. Thin pone:
in the oak tree is something we can think of. We can think
about it and accept it. There must be a certain power.
otherwise the plant or tree would not grow. But for the
actor, who incorporated everything. it in not enough to 3333
about it, to accent it intellectually. The actor has to be
able to grow with the plant together. not in general bet ﬁlth
thio particular plant. he must be nblo to mold inwardly‘thiu
kind of leaves, and to mold the oak form differently. when
the actor tiles to penetrate into all thoue life currents.
life events which are everywhere around us. what deco he do?
he awakens the life in himself. the life which is the only
means by which he in able to perform on the stage. or course.
no are speaking about the ideal ease and about the actor of
the future.
New let us look at an animal. How should the actor
look at an animal? Let us imagine a lien. for instance. what
we know about a lien in approximately the ahepe of it: it
seems to be yellow and beautiful. but what else? I don't know.
But this is not enough. We have to plunge into the lion's
life. and we will see how different it is from the life which
'melde the plant or the oak tree. We shall see that the power

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

‘,‘,,
H. Chekhov February 17. ighz
which molds the lion's paws if we panotrate through them into
the life which molds these paws; we will get tho impression
of punsionato all; which is alwayn looking for victims. for
grauping. for catching novamcntu. and so on. The form of the
pawn will speak to us actora about things which we do not know
exist in us. but they are there.
Then we nhnll discover that all Of us are lions. are
animals, plants. tress. angelic beings. and so an. We must
only penetrate into them and rob them of their specific life.
then we will understand that we can do ovorything on the
stage. We can be angels or devils. Ramona who love so much.
or Iagon who know how to hurt, and hate. and be happy that the
person in dead. We can be ﬁurdorora. judges. victimu. every-
thing, but to discover this thing in us we have to breathe in
the life which is around us.
DIMEKSIONS 0F SHAKESPEARE'S CHARACTERS:
‘ I will not dare to speak about Shakespeare except.
for one word. I doubt that we actors can really and truly
perfhrm Shakespeare if we have not discovered in ourselves all
these lions. cats, plants.‘oaks. angels. I think Shakespeare
never wrote about "us." but always about beinge who are either
lower than we are. or higher. I don't think we can find a
single character which in just like We are. But this variety
of characters which Shakespeare created shows us that this is
the variety which is represented in heaven and in hell. We

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

M. Chekhov February 17. 19u2
have to be devile. and we have to be angels. then Shakespeare
will disclose himself for us. and we can then diucovor Shaken-
ﬁeﬁro for oureelvoo.
ﬂhon we are reading Shueepeare, we do not yet know
what it is, and only after having plunged into the tremendous.
and oometimen terrible lifo of his heroes. do we begin to
guess what they might be. Othello. for instance. Now try to
imagine what we have to awaken in ourselvoe to become no pun-
eionato and so tender. so willful and so weak - whet kind of
walk we must have to oxpreou Othello. Row offenoive it is
when we nee an actor who wnlke into hie dreaming room or onto
the etago no Othello as though it were just the some — whether
he lovos or in jeelouo. it'io duet tho came to such an actor.
Ran very disappointing it in to see a Hamlet on the stage who
in just as we are. But thin in a mistake - either no are all
)mnleto or he in different. So it is with all the churnetoro
of Shakespeare.
' New let us see what the actor can do to awaken the
life within him. First of all. he must go through certain
mental work. He has to recognize that he is living under the
preseuro of materialintic‘thoughto which are killing every-
thing. killing hie life and his ability to see the life around
him — his ability to catch the life and to take it from every-
where.
There are more dangers from this materialistic world

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

m. Chekhov Fobruury 1?, 1942
outlook. If the actor has a philosophy. if he is an honest.
logical materialist. then it is one thing. But what We see
in the majority of cases is that tho actor does not know
whether he is a materialist, n spiritualist, or an idealistn
he simply lives from hour to hour. or oven from one half hour
to another. being under this materialistic influence which is
everywhere in our epoc. It is a shame to speak about angels
because the air is filled with materialistic thoughts; The
last wave of natarialistic thoughtwas at the and ofhthe last’
century. when wo were thinking of materialism as proudly
finding new ways, in art. in religion. in essential questions —
finding through logic on approach to the scriptures. to vitalism.
We actors think we are all right in our minds. but we are not.
We have retained so many habits of the materialistic'kind of
life. which is morn dangerous than if we havo a firs conviction
that the world consists only of matter.
iI'A'Z‘ERIALISi-l- THE CLICHE IN ACTING:
The actor who wants to be a pioneer in discovering
the new theatre. who wants to know how Hamlet looks, how
ushallo looks. how Claudius shouts, ”Give me some lightl‘.
must discord his materialistic way of living. That means to
substitute now habits for old habits. If we have bosomc
accustomed to sitting with arms crossed. for instance. it
Booms quits innocent,but it is not because it is already
filled with materialistic impulses. To sit in another way is

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

m. Chekhov Fobmazv 17. 19%
uncomfortable. but do it and than Bomeﬁhing will break in you
and some new meaning. some new fooling. some new connection
with the plnnto and trace will be there. That is the way
to throw away this heavy blanket of materialist habito which
are hanging upon no.
So. an netoro. we have first to realize that we are
not quite ourselvee. We are somehow slaves of thoughts which
we call materialistic thoughto. which are everywhere in the'
air around uo. in our bodies. in our manner of Boeing and
hearing thinge. The actor has also to realino that the materi-
aliotic world outhok. however harmonious it may noon, hao
degenerated in our day into this world dioaster we are living
in. All the thingo which torture us now come from thio degen-
erated. materialiotie point of View.
when the artist first begins to flirt with concrete
things instead of his imagination and his ideas. and he falls
in love at first slyly with theoe things and many more things
become attractive to him. then he feels he doesn't need his
imagination because everything in given ~ the ohapo, the form.
and the coloro with which to point it. Then the artist comes
to the point when he roaliy falls in love with such things so
deeply and profoundly that he begins to think that he is a
thing which has to be dressed. made-up. and shown from the
stage.
This is the price which we must pay today for this

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

I
M. Chekhov February 17. 1932
flirting long ago with real things. But if the artist of
today wants to be honest with himself. he will say. "I must
go on flirting. I have to love tanko and machine guns and
all the thingu which are shown on the news reel." But how
can the ucior, loving tanks. not Hamlet? I think it in im-
possible. The tank in a thing which is mighty enough to
kill us as artists, not only physically, an it is happening
in the world now. but psychologically as well.
If I don't love this tank. than I have to go the
whole way back. It in not enough to say I deny the tank. but
I accept the cliehﬁ in the theatre - they are the ammo thing.
The dead clichd en the stage is the same thingzs the tank on
the battlefield. All thooe illusions have to be thrown away.
for as nrtiutu we are people who have to do with life} or we
are uubconnciouoly nlnvoo of death. what is the second thing
which the actor has to do? He has to aoeolife'ovorywhorc, and
to say goodbye to all materialiutic thoughts and habits of
life.
THE ACTOR 'S TECH” IQUEI
The third things, We.nn uetore,mdat have our technique.
which is Just an fine and an complicated as the technique of
any other artist. Our means of oxpreuaion must become different
ones from these which We havunaw. our instrument which sorvoo
to convey to our audience all our imagination and feelings and

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
M. Chekhov February 17, 19h2
will—impulses and everything. this instrument - our voices
and body - has to be rcmndo, ro—croated. It has to be con-
sciouoly changed. ‘
How can it be done. and what Hind of change can we
got? Let no any that we are moving on the stage. We can
move by using our muscled - juot by using them. We can take
a chair and know inst the physical body moves it and puts it
down. But have I experienced something more than the usual
msnnor to move on the stage? If not. then it has to be no-
crontadQ How? I have to discover in myuelf do an motor that
this kind of nuvomont. which Bturtu abruptly and neon only
munclco. must be dropped. I have to find oomothing also,
which is first tho life impulse and a concrete one.
First tho inpuso to move. then. within this.impulso.
to lot the body move and follow the impulse - not the opposite.
when I have put the chair down.and I feel that my action is
finished, that would be wrong. If I have n life—impulse
first. then I allow my body to follow it and take the chair-
and place it down, but the life-impulse soon on. sustains,
than stopn. Tho life-impulse has to be started, and the life-
{mpuloo has to go on aftcr'thc physical movement has been
accomylinhod. Then we shall feel our bodied in quite a dif-
ferent way. We shall feel that our bodies serve us as instru-
ments for oxpresslng things which are more than physical. To
express will-impulses and life-impulses 13 something which

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
H. Chekhov February 17, 19U2
the audience must get. and on the waves of which we can radi-
ute to our audience fine things. Hamlet's psychology. for
instance. We are not able to convey what hamlet thinks or
wishes without it, but with the life-impulse we can. on these
waves, conwey to the audience such things which will be the
closest possible things to Shakespeare.
~we do not know what Shakespeare thought or felt, but
the nearest thing we can do in to use theoo life-impulses and
woven on which we can convey to our audience the fineot things
which we can find in Shakenpeure'e playo. There are so many
means to revive and to fill with life our own bodies - there
are so many means to make alive the surroundings - but we have
not the time to speak about all the possibilities of develop-
ing and ro-crcating our bodice — We must speak new about other
things.
ATVOSPHEREI
The surroundings of an actor are also dead nowadays.
when the actor enters the otuge. he knows his buuinene. he
knows his cues and hie partners' cues, and they are things
Iscpurate from each other to such an extent that when. for in-
stance. I have said certain words and now my partner speaks.
what am I doing? Nothing. I simply disappear into nothingnass.
and only if I am an experienced actor will I try not to show
it. But actually I am at home with my dog - when I hear my
cue} I go on. but where have I been in between while? In a

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

c;
:o’
n;
M. Chekhov February 17, 1942
psychological emptiness.
Here we must try to find out what is in the actual
air around the actor. The air is always filled with the
atmosphere. which in the only air that the actor can breath
in and out; When he is surrounded by the atmosphere, ho is
there, he is present. he does not need to disappear into
nothingnusa. The atmosphere is somcthing which we can create
around us consciously. We don't need to wait for the happy‘
event when suddenly the mood or tho atmosphere comcu upon
us. and we have a happy rehearsal for half an hour, and then
again a dry business taken over. We can create the atmosphere.
and.in fact,wo are obliged to do no. I
What is the atmusphero on the stage? Two things are
very akin but not the same. There are the personal feelings
of the motor which he uaen for the character, but the utmos-
pherc is aomothing different - R in an objective realm of
feelings around us. An an example. wo can easily imagine an
accident on the street. We are approaching this catastrophc.
Don't you think there is a certain point whcre first we sec
the catastrophe, and then an we approach it nearer and nearer
end we are surrounded by the atmosphere of the catastrOphe,
as if we were really approaching the space filled with somc~
thing vary tangible for the actor - it is not the same air
which is just two or three feet before it.
When one comes into the general utmOSphcre of catastrophe.

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

 
M. Chekhov February 17. 19h2
he may find that all the words he may speak, all his move-
manta. all his dociree are different because of this general
atmosphero of catnsﬁrOphe. This general. objective atmosphere
inuplroo one to move. to speak, to think. to feel. to radiate
different rhinga. Thin lo the air which given inspiration to
the actor on the stage. That in what makes the performance
alive.
How we have the cataofropho on the street — one
person in frightened, another pornon fights with hie foaru.
a third in happy that it didn't happen to him. a fourth is
trying to help but does not know how to, another holpo and
in busy. They are all in different personal needs. yet all
of them - including the policeman - are members of thla
general objectivo atmouphorc of tho catantropho. Wu-can find
those atmospheres everywhere in no only become acneitlvo
cnough.to than.
I For instance. imagine a clinic. “an it not its onn
atmosphere? The general atmosphere is there. whatever the
mood of the people in it may be. >Thon imagine Broadway in
the evening. in the morning. at noon, at midnight — everyone
in different. To be nblo We catch thoao atmospheres and to
allow them to influence us so that everything which will be
done or spoken will be under the influence of tho atmosphore.
then the space around the actor on the stage will be filled
with differont kinda of life - just as with the plant or

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

. AL, 4r)
m. Chekhov February 17. 1942
other kind of 11in which the actor can one and live in. Then
the space will not bo empty around the actor.
‘ The atmosphere in not only very helpful for the
actor whilo acting or preparing hio portr% The atmosphere. it
ocomn to me. has a great miouion in the future theatre. In_
which Gonzo? What are we looking at now whnn we go to see a
performanco? we wont to see a star, but the theatre does
not canolot solely of stars. We want to one and to hear nhat
the author has written about. and what else? If thoro are no
state? Perhaps that is all we are going to Sec — the play -
but where in the theatre? Whoro are the actorn if they are
not otora? "Hate you soon the oloy7". we ask. why not. "Hove
you noon the performance?“. j§ocausa thorn in no purformnncc.i
This is what happens on tho stoic. Theta are the
author's ideas. then a gap. then uctoro' bodice and voices.
clovor. humorous. or whatever the author's idooo are. ho
understand than from the audience. and we oeo - it We are
sitting near enough - the motors moving and speaking. but
nothing in between. Tho idea and tho will. The actors are
moving and doing their business - that is the will — but whore
is the heart that in in bbtwcen? Very often there in no
heart-boat in the performance. Imagine for a moment that we
have brilliant idcaa End a strongwill but no heart. what is
it? A fine machine, a clever machine, but not a living being.
without the hoort—beut thoro in no life. I wanted to any that

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

m. Chekhov February 17, 19b2
Hitler in a good picture for such n machine. an inhuman
machine, but that in not right because he in not clever. and
he has no will - he in only a puppet. But much u person in
a cold. frightening machine.
-It in an extreme oxamplc.but utill it in what happcnu
on the stage. We have the author’s ideas and the actero'
business. but no one in vary worried about 11. Ho one in
frightened. no one in sorry. but it does not touch me at all
because the actor in cold. he fulfills hia busincsa and speaks
the author'o ideas.
THE LIVING PERFOREAHCE:
Now the atmosphere in the heart-beat of the perform-
ance. The ntmoayhcro is the thing which the future theatre
and the future netor nunt take care of. Just an no tdko care
of our physical hearts. If our physical hearts are somehow
in disorder, WE cannot think as well us before. We cannot
fulfill our businuna as well, we must lie down. But the
theatre is much more than that. When the heart in the theatre
steps. what are we looking at? Nothing. There is nothing on
the stage if there is no atmosphere. Guessing and pretending.
that is all. It in nonunnbo. The performance must have a soul.
The sEirit is the author. and tho ggg; in the actor, and the
Eggx which moves is the director. costumes. and everything.
nedy. soul, and spirit, than it is a living thing. Otherwise.
it is perhaps more dangerous than a Hitler.

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

 
m. Chekhov February 17, 1942
WHAT THE AUDIENCE NEEDS:
Then we have to discover one thing more. we actors.
We have to find out what for and for whom are we acting. If
we act for eureelveu tnlhnve eatiefaction. it in wrong. We
have to act only and exelueively for the audience. We must
be able to sacrifice oureelveu completely while being on the
etage and serve the nudlencn feifhfully. We have to answer
their questions, we have to satisfy their needs. But for
that we must know what the audience needs. and here again is
a difficulty with the box office. becauao the box office also
knows that the audience needs, and the box office in a poison
office in this scneo. But the actor must have a different
point of View. The actor must be able to open hin own mind
and soul and will and to listen to the audience. liatbn to
what the audience desires and what its needs are.
Firet let us see just superficially. Before the
war - I mean before this war ~ there were certain plays pro-
duced in New York. New everything in changed. inside of us.
in our lives. we have different dreams. our feclingsfor time
is different. We feel we have started to live a different
life. But the box office feuding just as it was before the
war. No change in the theatre. It is as if the audience is
just the same. As if the needs arithc theatre are juut the
some - to feed the box office.

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

 
M. Chekhov February 17, 19Q2
THE ILmGINARY AUDIENCE:
Here the actor must do the following work: There
is the imagination. Every actor who wanto to be a pioneer
has to imagine the theatre. has to choose a play - let us
say it in hamlet again. The actor muet imagine that he seen
the performance going on. and he Bees the audience in his
imagination. Now he must perform this imaginary performance
and listen to the imaginary audience.
What is the audience's reaction to Hamlet today?
If the actor will exercise this way. he will very soon dio-
cover that he has different ears. different oyeo. and he
known the audience and what it wanto from the performance of
Hamlet. from the performance or 0thollo,or any modern play.
The imaginary audience will tell him when he is free.from
all disturbing elements. Thin imaginary audience will tell
him what they are suffering. what kind of humor they need.
whatever they need. And then the actor will feel himself
somehow with the audience while he in acting on the stage.
He will no longer believe the newspapers or his friends or
his enemies. he will know what the audience of today is. In
this imaginary audience will be included Pearl Harbor and
Churchill's speech and Hitler's mack. Everything will be
included - all our hopes, beliefs. conflicts. and doubts. the
audience will speak about these things to us. And when the
actor opens his heart to the imaginary audience of today and
hears the voices of the audience, he will act differently,
Kiw'

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

R. Chekhov February 17, 19Q2
he will move differently on the Btago — how we do not know-
In thin way the actor will find the audience and
will have the audience in his eeul forever. Then the director
will be the audience itself...the bent directer...the finest
and wisest. The actor will also feel that the audience has
its needs which must be satisfied. and the audience has thinge
which it will digest. but it does not need very much. The
audience gets theme thinge. laughs and sometimes gigglee, and
pays money for it and the actor feels. "Perhaps I will not do
.thia bueinees. It in not the right time.“ ,
The neter. through thlo imaginary audience. will
feel thﬁt he in here. playing a modern play. but he in also
in the war in the Pacific on well. He in not isolated ego-
tisticnlly, and in able to be responsible for all he Hone on
the stage. for all he thinhu and imaginee. and for how he
moves on the otagc. Then another thing will come. Often
we hear that Shakespeare's humor in not humorous at all, that
it in dull and the scntencae are long and indecent. But the
actor who is able to be here and in the war zone at the came
time. he will be able to discover how terribly humoneue
Shakespeare in. How hie humor comes from such a depth Rwhere
it is BO near to tragedy.
Often we think that here is something very humorous,
and here in something very tragic. and nothing in between.
But they are really together. If you laugh at the clown,

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

5923
 
N. Chekhov February 17. 19h2
Greek, you are laughing and crying at the same time. What
happens? The new actor of the future will be able to put
the theatre on the ground of such things whlch now seem so
for apnrtt
THE CREATIVE PROCESS - FOUR STAGES:
Then the actor will discover one more thing. He
will discover that the creative process is not a floundering
thing. The creatite process is a most exact process. Nothing
of floundering. Freedom is not license. The creative prqogee.
which the actor of the future will know from inside. conniote
of four definite ctnuen which the actor will love.
 
The first stage is when he foole that the part he
is going to perform. the play he in going to perform. is some-
thing which he can embrace entirely an a general atmosphere
which comes nearer and nearer. No details yet. but a pleasant
atmosphere of the play culled Romeo and Juliet, let us say.
It is a world. The Tcnncet is quite a different world.
Othello in quite another world. hnmleg another world. The
first stag is to listen to the future play. to the future
performance as it to music. To listen and to enjoy and to
take in more and more. without interfering yet with this
marvelous process of conception. The child muet be conceived,
it must be surrounded by this atmosphere and be prepared.
The actor will know that this in the first stage, and he will
he sly and wait.

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

 
M. Chekhov February 17. 1942
The second stage: More details begin to sparkle in
the imagination. Not yet in reality. which is full of cliches
and habits. Images beginningto appear here and there. My
part. your part. his part. all our parts. ?hey sparkle and
begin to appear with promises - they lot us guess. and they
entice us. Gradually, ithhis second stage. the actor of the
future will very carefully put hishand on the moving world of
.imngoe and will ctart.to move them with hie own will, asking,v
Don Quixote. for instance. to show his arms and hands when
he in standing on guard. and tho image nhuws him.L ;Shew me
how you are eating this dry fish.'. and the image will show.
"Show me how you kisu this proutitute. thinking Bho is n
princeee." “show no how the prostitute leeks.“ "Now move,
come together, separate." "Show me this moment,“ and_so the
performance begins to grow in cnc'c imagination.
This in the necond stage. when the actor will create
the performance in his vivid imagination which he has got
from everywhere, and can manage and can influence hia imagcu
so lightly and easily that they will dance under his question-
ing.gazo, and perform. perform. perform - the whole thing will
be almost there.
[he third stage sturte when all those imagcn' must
be distributed into different bodies. Into the body of the
actor who is acting Don Quixote into the Duke. into Sancho
Pdnza, and so on. Different bodies filled with the life. and

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

E. Chekhov February 17. 19u2
they start the third stage of incorporating these movable
images. The actor has seen Don Quixote so many times in the
world of the imagination — how he walks, how he moves — and
then the body is filled more and more. and inspired more and
more with fhc image which was there and which has shown its
life. when the image is thorn and the actor can glance as
Don quixoto and move like him. When the character is every-
thing and the actor looks at himsclf absolutely objectively,
not egotistically. then the character movos and speaks out of
him.
INSPIRATION - TWO STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS:
Then cameo the fourth stave which we can't do - it
comes of itoclf. The inspiration comes. tho imagination stops
and the inspiration in thorn. It means that I am two persons.
1 hava given my body. my willlinpulsc. and it [ihe imagoj has
me. I am Don Quixote because he wantu no to be. and there is
another "I Am." Absolutely free. calm. and quict5looking at
this Don Quixote - looking and magically leading ité‘ The
second “I" foresees everything that will happen on the otagc.
If Don Quixote is sitting at the table. the other "I" known
that he is getting up before ha doca it. Therefore. I tell'
him to get up like this or that, and he does it. Doing sure
that there is his guide, hin inspiration. in h strange form
of a second "I."1 It is not mere fantasy that I am speaking
about. We know that Goethe was a scientifically sound man,

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

:4
H. Chekhov February 1?. 1942
but he had this ability to divide hio consciousness in n cre-
ative state. He was one Goethe in his life, and another
Goethe who looked upon the other. Two Gootheo, and the second
was actually the artist, the grant Goethe. We know that ho
was — withoot hating himself morally, without hating tho girl
he loved at tho noncnt — at the moot critical moment of his
life. ho was still Gootho. Gnu Gootho woo with tho girl and
the other was looking at then both. accepting thin thing
because Goethe was a purc.artiotia nature. Then the other
Goethe wrote about his own love experiences vory orth. and
wrote so that we are autonichod how he knows such things. such
fine. subtle. nyotoriouo. hidden thingo. when he and she are
in love. Hccuupo ho occo himself looking at himoolf and at
tho girla- creating there the divided consciousness. _And the
actor of tho future will be able to do thin. and will know
that thorc in no other way than to go patiently through tho'k
four utogco. one after another - at tho ond tho inspiration
and the two conociouonnoooo.
Daron-hr
Question: You speak about the atmosphere which influences the
actor Porhapn you could expand the whole question of the
transition.
Answer (Hichacl Chekhov): The atmosphere in one thing. but
there are others. For instance. if we develop the ability to

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

 
M. Chekhov February 17. 19u2
move in different ways. If we train ourselves to move in
different ways. for which there are special exercises. then
the body itself can inspire us very much. He knew that very
often we actors are instinctively avoiding things which our
bodice cannot do. For instance, the actor might like to
imagine Dex Quixote in one way. but because he is not flexible
enough in his body. he finds it bettce to imagine the charac-
ter more simply. When the body in developed more. the
imagination will be more free.
Question: But how about the objective? Would not the object—
ive take cSro of the trap of doing nothing in between speeches?
Answer (Hiehael Chekhov): The objective. as I understand it.
fills the whole scenic time on the stage. The question in
only how to use it. If We take the objective only With our
minds, it will not help. If the intellect understands nome-
thing. it keeps it there longer than noceoenxy and does not
allow the will to use it. But the objective, which we take
by moons of our will. is there during the whole performance.
and there are no gaps because the actor has his objective as
a character. and he is going to fulfill it. So the objective
helps very much to avoid any gape on the stage.
Question: When you were speaking about what the audience
wants — about comedy and tragedy - the way in which you arrived
at it is not eleér to me. When you say you know what the

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

m. Chekhov February 17. 19“?
audience wants. I don't understand this unlee: you know it in
terms of yourself.
Annwer (EéEﬂ32l_§E£Eh2!)l he seen an we see with our imaginary
eyes the "roaconﬂ the “intellect“ in somehow limited or be-
witchod. Of course. there in something of yourself because
the artistﬁiu alwpyu an individual who has to any something
to the world. The artist has the right to express hia opinion.
doubts, and convintinns through his art. It in a combination
of "guessing" what the imaginary audience wants and adding to
it what the artiot wants as e creative individual.
There in one great illuuion in our art when we think
we can perform and interpret the part absolutely objectively.
There in no objective point of View at all. The artist has-
not the right to be objective, otherwise he has nothing to
may. nothing to perform. It must be objective in the sense
that I am living in my time - I muet knew what happens - I
muat know what Hitler and Mussolini and other quasi—great
characters are. I munt know everything on earth and. more
than that. I must guess what will happen tomorrow. And then.
on top of all that which is objective. I must throw my cub-
' Jectivc light on such things and hate Hitler in my own way.
Question: To throw away the habit of material thinge — to give
it away is comparatively easy. but what do you give them
instead? How do you get the actors to be able to imagine and

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

 
m. Chekhov February 17, 19b2
to trust their imaginations. To let it flow and say there
it is. what is it?
Answer (Michael Chekhov): First of all. I ncvnr recommend my
colleagucn br students to drop all their habits immediately
because it may be Just as dangércus as you say - the habits
are gone and nothing new is there to aubotituto for than. The
way to drop old habits in time in to follow certain develop—
ment. a curtain Method. an we call it. of course. I cannot
even give a hint of our ﬂothad in such a short time. but there
is a mothod which can gradually substitute all the habitn,
giving the actor the ability to create anew atczch moment.
Without worrying that there will b0 cmpty_upncca and gaps.
It taken time and training on the one hand. and on the other
hand. wp must nct dr0p tho habitu until the new thinén are
coming along ta take their place.
nhnn-hﬂu