

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

IviichaelChekhov July 18. 1937
THE ART or THE "2mm; vs. NATURALISH
THE 1mm OF THE PLOT \ -
SUGGESTIONS FOR DIRECTORS
sxzmum mm DISCARD
TEMPO - BEGINNING - MIDDLE — END - CLIL'AXBS
2.31573EN schus
SUGGESTIONS mom msms .3
STYLE
CHARACTERIZATIOi-I
Chaliopin
StanirJJAvoky
THE ART OF THE ﬁiEATRE VS. NATURALISLEI
Evaluation of tho Porfomanon of July 12th:
The idea of this criticism in to give our directors
and actors something to think of during the summer. Therefore,
it 15 not in tho nature of a correction. but is specially aimed
to give you something to work on during the ammo: holidays.
You will not be given any other work. apart from thinking. ina-
gining, and concentrating on our sketches.
First of all. I must tell you that the work you have
done up to today is tremendous. You have done much more than
I had expected. Tho first tom was a very difficult one, in
which we tried to find each other. If you will think back on
it. you will realize that you have made great progress as a
group, as: actors and artists, and as human characters, which
also bolongu to our profession.
If you will think about yesterday's rehearsal in terms
of good or bad. you will get nothing; from it: but ifyou will say
from which point of View it was good or bad - if from the point
of View of the far future ideal, than it was bad) but if from

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

:=;.Chekhov July 18. 1937
the viewpoint of the work done. it was very good. I would
suggest that when thinking of our work during the summer, you
must think in concrete toms of what in good or bad. In con-
nection with this, I beg of you never to listen to any suggeo- f7
time coming to you from tho outside; only listen to your dir- I
actors. If you open your ears to everybody, you will go down
and down. Actors of today try to listen to everyone and please
everyone. This. spoils very much tho taste and the individu-
ality. By listening to your director. you will never lose your
individuality. '
On the basis of what :10 Ban yesterday. it would be
interesting to lmew on what level we stand es 5. group. The
halfway mark is whore we are:
The Ideal
N
The Boeinninv
 
THE ART OF 1M5 THEATRE VS. NATURALISH:
We must be truthml, and we must know what we are
doing on the stage during the performance. We must have jus—

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

x‘J.Chekhov July 18, 1937
tification. objectives. the fooling of truth, etc.. but these
are only the groundwork for each actor. In tho naturalistic
theatre - "Hf - everything is true and persuasive and like
life. In the last half of the above diagram just given, there 5
is something more. On the bane of having truth. and objectives
on the stage. you must add something more: ~tho idea of the
933x, That means that each performance muot incorporate not
only objectives. feeling of truth, etc.. but ccrtainideae
which are the ideal of the group working on this or that play.
It is the incorporation of something more than being truthful
or Justified on the stage.
THE IDEA OF 'l‘HE PLOT:
Tho naturalistic theatre speaks about the 2123- rather
than the iggg. Tho idea is what we are going to say to our
audience through the whole performance. More than that. here
is the rhythm. tho mueic of the performance, the intangible
parts. Hero is art!
Below the halfWay mark is the naturalistic theatre
[referring to tho diagran]. but not art. In it we use our
natural abilities. The real art begins only with all the
rhythms. and ideas. and metamorphosos. and constructions of
the play, and atmospheres. and everything which is above nat~
uralism.
We have not yet reached even the naturalistic stan—

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

1/1.Chekhov July 18, 1937
dard. we are not yet able to span); or move well on the stage,
or to justify our movements, ‘atcu or have tho fouling of
truth on the stage. We are not yet even halfway. We have not
yet touched the art of the theatre, and therefore we are really?
still children. We must continue our work very carefully, A
knowing that our ideal is still very far away. But we will
never stop learning, even when wa have becon'm actors - we will
always be students. To be able to continue our development,
we must be brave enough to see quite honestly whom we are as
artists. This is the first thing I mint to tell you.
I would like to make another suggestion to our dir-
ectors. and that is that they try to prepare tho following
points in connection with the future work with the sketches:
SUGGESTIOI‘ES FOR DIRECTORS:
Werything must be simplified to the greatest yossiblo
extent, both from the technical and the artistic standpoint.
To begin with, it is not possible to keep the audience waiting
you act as geniuses. tho audience will expire. We must make
the pauses as short as possible. and this in the first task I
give the directors .
SIZ‘IPLIFY AND DISCARD:
In simplifying the sketches, this must be done in
' three directions: a) settings. 1:) lighting effects (in every

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

12?.Chekhov July 18. 193?
scene there are still too many ﬂanges. the best lighting
being in Peer amt), c) sound effects. These are not as yet
part oi‘ the performance; there are too many sounds in each
play, and they are still very loud, so that they are distur-
bing and not helpml. You must sinpliiy and diminish the
quantities of these sounds and really try to elaborate their
quality-
Regarding the music for Poor G 1:. this must be dis-
carded, because in this sketch to have the music come simul-
taneously with the speech is unbearable. when I suggested it,
I thought of some faraway sounds like breathing, not an or-
chestra. This sketch is a human psychological one; we don't
need to have it interpreted by music. Actors and directors
must have the ooumgo to discard everything they have done
before and begin all over again. This is the only way we will
be able to achieve a standard with time. This is the second
task I give the directors for the swmor.
'h'emust go on with the student part of our work until
we reach the naturalistic place. Then we become actors) but
we must try to solve some artistic problems. even if we are
not yet grown-up actors. The directors must create really some
artistic things during the sumertime. .You can approach this
as you like. Each director must iragine'many times the whole
performincc. It is very easy after these two days of perfor-
mance to imagine future pcri‘onmnces on the grounds or basis

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

7:1;Chekhov . JULY 18' 1937
of what you havo soon. and try to solve the follovdng problems:
T125530:
(1) Tempo, changing tempos, tempo as quality. To ;_.
dmg the perfozmnco or to lead it with temperament is another ‘14
thing, but I am speaking of the clungmg of the tempos as
qualities. It can be slow or fast, staccato or legato. and
those are qualities. Look through your whole sketch, and pre-
pare and write dmm what your imagination has {given you as
answora to this question oi‘ tempos.
BBS-INHING. MIDDLE, BED!
b) Each director must, by 123333412313his play, find
the thrco parts: the beginnmg. the middle. and. the end. The
beginning and tho and must he opposite to each other. either
fully or partially, the contract must be there.
CLIL’AXSI
c) You must find at least three clhmxes in each
sketch. I say three because of the three parts: the beginning.
the middle, and the end. In canon whore tho firat and last
part are so close to each other that the transition is only one
moment, this is another question. whothor there is a climax or
not. but wo will not touch on this problém new. We must speak
of the thraa parts as if the middle part 13 a long transition,
and it :2th ham; a climax. Therefore. you must find at least

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

m. Chekhov July 18. 1937
three climaxes. I have never yet seen one climax in your
work. 'This requires more clear understanding of what the
director wants to show as a climax. and how - this is the
problem.
You will get the idea of the climax if you will
remember only one thing: that climax is always tension. You
will not be able to make a climax with light movements, etc.,
without tension. The reason there are no climaxes in your
work is because of the lack of tension, which can be in two
ways. full action and ”as if" passivity.
MISS m scam.
d) In many instances the weakest point in the
scenes was the mise en scEno.‘ This in particularly true of
Two Kings. Directors must imagine their sketches and see how
to move their actors so that tho misc on scEno will be as in-
teresting as the play itself. This is a task which our dir-
ectors must imagine and be ready to incorporate it when we
start our work next term.
SUGGESTIONS FROM CASTS!
Ths QWiticisms which we will each give the direc-
tors is an excellent exercise. because always in our theatre
each member of the group has the right to say what he feels
about the plays. although the director is the head and the
master. and if he is willing to accept the suggestion he may,

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

F-‘Z.Chekhov July 18. 1937
but he is not obligated to do so.
I must tell you that there is not much to be gained
by criticizing our young actors as individuals. because each
one of them needs the same things. Everybody needs the power
to radiate atmosphere. Everybody needs to know how to use
objective. justification. feeling of truth, etc. Therefore,
what I have to say applies to everyone in general. and it
would be wrong for me to speak to each person separately,
although I must give suggestions to some of you in special
cases. It may be more dull to hear criticism in general. but
it is more right from the pedagogical standpoint.
I. What was the grentoot achievement at last night's
performance? The way in which you carried through
tho ligg. This was done successfully, and was a great
achievement. Tomorrow I will ask you to do the same
long, tiring exercise: to increase the life. You
will get very much from this exercise because it is
like blood, it circulates through the whole body.
You will grow as actors through this ability to col-
loot the life into your souls.
II. The second achievement was that almost through-
out the whole performance you kept the atmosphere,
and this was again very gratifying to me. You must
realize that you are able to create the atmosphere
1.

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

{-1.Chekhov July 18. 193?
STYIuZ-‘x
to a certain extent, and to create the life. and to
keep it as a jewel in your pocket. We uuot leam
to appreciate what we have already reached. If a. _
person can do something. and stops to appreciate it, It]:
this lo the beginning of becoming conceited. However.
if I say to myself that I an very thankful to my deu—
tiny that I have. for instance. too hands; and than
I an in an accident and loco one, it will be too late
to appreciate them. I must appreciate them while I
have them; and if I an able to appreciate them, I
will be able to use than in quite another way. There-
foro wo muot appreciate what we have already achieved.
we are able to radiate atmosphere. and we must be
thankful to the school. and to our dostiny. that we
have this powor.
III. We have already reached a 00min level in our
development as a group. Already this is streaming
and radiating, perhaps even stronger than the whole
pori‘omunco of yesterday. \‘10have a. group which
knows what it means; to be together. to create one
thing. to servo each other. and the whola performance.
This is a great power] he thanhml for it. and appre-
ciate it, and never lose it.
The Director's Work:

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

m. Chekhov July 18. 193?
Directors must thirtk over another problem: the prob-
lem of $5311.03 which was lacking in yesterday's patron-twee.
There was no idea. about the style. All the sketches were the
same. This problem 121th be thought through during the swnmor- j'
time. You must try to find the lino first of all: whether I
it in tragedy. dram, dmm near to comedy. etc. Each direc-
tor must find out what the style of each individual play is.
For example. Paula's suggestion that Tho Fishing Sec-no be ac—
ted in waves is right.
CHARACTERIZATIONI Sutton!)ions to Individuals:
We have said once that for a real actor-artist. each
part is a character part. To shot! oneself on the stage with-
out characterization in not interesting and means nothing for
the actor. Each part. even the part of the most beautiful
lover on the stage. must be considered as a character part.
For example, Blair, in acting Kostrln. acts on old.
passionate man "in gcnoral." 11"' after seeing this part, I
as}: myself what character I have seen. I would not know, because
I have only seen an old man in general; Blair has not yet cre-
ated a'personality. This is not yet a characterization and
not yet a. fig-um. The same is truo of Paula as Balladins -
a tragic figure "in general." but the trsgic personality of
Ealladlnn is not clear.
Just the opposite is true of Johnx he tries always
to be a character. but he is not yet able to reach this because

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

H. Chekhov July 18. 1937
his body and his spirit are on two different levels. and they
have not yet found each other. rthe soul and the imagination
want something, but the body is not yet able to do it. The
way he tries to find the character is right. and with time
his body will find his soul, and there will be a certain har-
mony. When this happens. we will know that We have seen a.
personality. .
In Blair's Kostrin, there are some traces of charac-
ter. For instance. when he begins to speak to Gralon, and
again when he says, "No. lady. no! A courier iron the count
awaits your orders." In Pear cut the moment when the mother
asks. "Am I invited?“ I feel I could write pages about the
character; but aften-mrds it becomes only an old woman. weak
and dying. It is important to have the feeling whether you
are either creating somebody or something.
The latter half of our work. that part beyond nat-
uralism. is always bound with tho creation of new personalities.
Imagine that you die. and you see before you all the images
that you have created during your life. You will see many char-
acters in general. and then you will see one or two peeple who
you have created. It is very important to know when you have
created something in general. and when you have created a par-
aonality.
Eleanor's Goplana is a very strange case. There is
already the germ to become a personality there. The director

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

!-’..Chekhov July 18, 1937
must‘have an eye for this precious thing, in order that he
may help the actor to develop it.
There in one thing which new be dangerous for Jocelyn;
as an actor. She is doing outwardly more than she is able to f.
Justify inwardly. She must watch the habit of mkmg meet:
and gestures. Hez- special task is to justify everything eho
does.
To 32‘s. EJJnhiret generally I would give this sugges-
tion: I think you must develop both as an actress and 3 dir-
ector. So far you have achieved very much in these directions,
but you must achieVe still more. Don‘t take your weakness for
artietic expression. Sometimes you are only weak. and you
mistake it for the color of some artistic thing. You must be
more liko‘Jocelyn. and she more like you. You will find more
expressivmese as an actress if you try to be more powerful.
inving more power. you will be able to say many weak and soft
thingel for example. when you are trying to calm people in
The Fishing Scam, you are not really calming them you are
MI; peacoihl. AB an actress you must be very unquict inside.
and yet try to make peace around you. but not by being weak in—
side. You must penetrate into thin rhythm where storms are
going on. and from these stoma you will' find quiet.
Sup-gestions to Alan:
What you have outside. you must tum inside. Before
you are able to express things outside, you must have then in-

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

fl. Chekhov July 18. 193?
side. You: are as if tumcd inside‘out. You must radiate
many things, and not mcomorgto things too quickly. This is
a Russian characteristic. Before they take account of what
is really going on, in them. they see that they are laughing
or crying. etc. Before it is really born imaido you, you be—
gin to express something; and when it in done. it is too late
because it is already done. You must imagine your character
much more. without moving yourself. Lot your character move,
and ask yourself whether you are really full of emotions.
Your body is developed. therefore it in too quick to serve.
It anticipates things which are only developing in your soul.
Conclud $35.;Rnwarkm
In conclusion. I want to say: the directors' work
for the summer will be:
1. To simpliiy everything.
2. To find the right tempos.
3. To find the right mice on ecEno and style.
If we are not ready by Christme, we will not show
our sketches to the public. Yesterday it mm a torture for
mo even to have our friends present. Nobody in the whole
world can explain to the audience that our work is not to be
taken as a production. Unconsciously they take it as a pro-
duction, and judge it accordingly. It is too dangerous.
Therefore. we must close the door to visitors next term.
Otherwise our work will be greatly retarded.

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

.‘zi.Chekhov July 18. 193?
The less you speak about our work and about our
Studio, the better. By this \I mean speaking professionally
about what we are going to prepare and perform. Itis impos-
sible to explain our work] one must do it to understand it.
I remember once trying to explain to Chaliapin what Stanis-
ansky's method when and after speaking to him for hours and
hours. he turned to no and said. “I do not \mderstand." It
is difficult to understand really. By speaking about our
work. we only run the rim: of being misunderstood. We must
wait until we are able to show: our work to the world.
Ono last word to Potor. You are a charming actor.
You will never become conceited. because if you do, I will
kill you! But you must got more and more warmth. This is
like a recipe from a physician.
Comments Fade Ifichnol Chekhov Durin Course of D scussionx   
One of the principles of our theatre is to have
this type of discussion. because the performances must be the
joint work of our group.
In trying to simplify our settings. we must con—
tinue to make uso of the height, depth, and breadth of the
stage and space.
An interesting opinion about ’mo Kinzs was given by
1.12:.Shdanof, who said that sometimes he began to laugh, and
then suddenly he stopped. because of some deeper meaning in
the play. which he did not realize at once. This play is

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

m, Chekhov July 18- 193?
philosophy incorporated in very charming pictures.\ .
The whole idea. of this discussion is to soy every~
thing now, and not to fall into the danger of discusoione
aftenmrdo. because these really kill our actor's ability.
If you will enter into long. intellectual discussions, you
will kill your performances.
SUGGESTIONS GIVE! BY MEMBERS OF THE GROUP.
IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF JULY 17th
Beatrice Straight:
*mo Kin/rm
At moments the miso en scEno was interesting and of
good quality. but at other times it was so chaotic that it
had no meaning whatever. The misc en scEne in this play must
be worked out very carefully, so it is so important. The
idea of up and down on tho throne can b0 more developed in
connection with the theme of the play, and in the mise en
scEne. I felt chaos in the sounds. I felt that with the in-
dividual characters there was form.
with regard to the idea. of the play and the theme
of the play, I felt the theme of the two kings was quite clear.
but the idea of the group was not clear. The director should
try to work out the connection between the {group and the two
kings.
Costumes: I liked them. but felt there could be much
more contrast in the form. color. and style. The idea of using

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

R. Chekhov July 18, 1937
the curtains is interesting,{but it gives the play a different
style to that set by the costumes. which are light and frothy]
but the curtains gave another quality which is even more in-
teresting. The first costumes which Hiriam designed would
have fitted in better with the curtains. as used in the play.
In this play particularly. unusual sounds and
music could be used to advantage. There is‘a very amusing
moment when the old king comes in and the new king is asleep,
but something more interesting could be developed from the
idea. The difference between the two should be more developed.
Balladina'll
miss an scans in this play is muchclearer, but I feel
that from the moment of the showing of the Knife until the
death of Alina, the theme must be worked out much more dramat-
ically. It is such an important moment that it should be given
much more importance in the mise en scéne. The scene between
Goplana and Balladina must be much stronger. As the theme is
tragic-lyric. the whole scene could have much more richness
and power. building up from the dramatic into the lyric. At
tho moment it is almost lyric all the way through. I don't
feel that it is justified to hypnotizo Balladina with the
knife. The scene is lovely new. but small. Through the de-
velopment of the characters. it can be played on a much lar-
ger scale.

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

If. Chekhov July 18, 1937
\\
Falladine II:
I This scene needs a lot of work with the actors to
develop the tragic theme. The mise en scéne through the
Gralon scene must be more interesting. The use of sounds
is important. Through the mother's eccne the characters must
storm and wind. These qualities must be maoc much more pow-
erful. I feel that the moment of the mother's metamorphosis
is wrong: to show her broken and quiet at the end of the
play is not right. If she is broken but not quiet, the audi-
encc will have a feeling of greater tragedy. She should de-
velon another quality of wildness. (Comment by iir. Chekhov:
The mother's danger is that she is getting younger and younger!)
The line of development of Kostrin'e character is that as a
servant. he becomes more a master.
(Beatrice Straight's comments, continued):
The Fishing Scene:
Trying to imagine it as if from the audience, I feel
that it is very telescoped; the actors do one thing immedi-
ately after another. For instance. the sighting of the boat
could be much more elaborated. The most important thing is
to develop the pauses and moments of quiet: the beginning of
the scene being much quieter. and the end being ﬁlll of speech
‘ and sounds. Er’ore time should be given for reaction and de—
velopment of a moment like the sighting of the boat. Perhaps

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

:3.Chekhov July 18, 1937
the feeling of waiting eou1d\be more stressed at the beginning
of the play. right up to the sighting of the boat.
The Golden Steed: b
The transitions between the scenes must be more elabi
orated.
Peer Gyntx
At times the mise en scone could be more speaking.
Because it is such an intimate scene, each movement is sig-
nificant; therefore. if the same positions are repeated many
times, the audience gets a feeling of monotony. The theme of
separation - the mother going one way, and the son tho other —
can be more stressed than it is at the moment.
Comments of gator Vasaroudizis: [icohnical Assistant to
'E. Chekhov}
The more simple our settings become. the fewer
structures required. the better it will be. This will be
possible if the psychological gesture of the structure is
found. The same thing applies to the lighting. with re-
gard to sounds, it would be a good idea for the students
during the summer holidays to listen for unusual sounds
which could be used in our work.
The Fishing Scene:

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

M. Chekhov July 18, 193?
The director of this acetic mg concentrated mainly
on developing the atmosphere. I would suggest that more art-
tention be paid to elaborating the mine on scone.
Two Kinzs:
This director sees everything in his imagination,
but finds difficulty in putting it into practice. .I would
suggest that during the sumzer the director tries to imagine
the whole play many times, and then tries to elaborate one
little piece of it.
Peer amt:
I would s‘ogest that the director of this scene
should try to become the oyposite of what he is in life: he
should try to be "out" rather than "in".
Balladinm
The director is sometimes too quiet. and explains
too long. The director is a human being, but as a director
he is a horse.
Golden Steed:
I would suggest that the director change everything
in the play: raise an SCEnG, atmospheres; everything.
General advice to directors“ Trv to Chung-o things]
 

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

.‘4-Chekhov July 18, 193?
Comments 0; A. Harlmesm
I suggest to directors and designer: that they re—
hearse more often from the back row of the theatre. This will '
[give than a feeling for the theatre as a whole, and establish ,~
the rclntionship between the otago and the action. I feel
that the curtains very often hinder the action and are heavy
ond confused.
Dalladinal
I think it would help the actors if when they come
with a now reading of their roles. the director would either
approve or disapprove, or give them some directions.
Comments of Blair Cutting:
In connection with Two Kintzo, I felt that the old
mice an ec\one was more helpful to the actors. 'rleshould have
more 51:11 rehearsals in order that the actors tray got u battor
feeling of the whole. This applies to all the sketches.
 
Comments of Paul Roger-m
The directors should "fly over" the whole play much
more often than they do. This will help to find tompo and
rhythm. I would suggest a more thorough organization of the
technical side. Everyone should know what he has to do. The

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

m. Chekhov July 18, 1937
director must be more aware of the qualities the actors have
to give, in order that he can use them. Sometimes the dir-
ectors lack the ability to find their way to the actors. I
would suggest attempting more subtle and original sounds.
Comments of Paula moral:
The Fishing Scene:
I feel that the style is dictated by the fact that
it is a realistic play about real country prople. This kind
of people only punctuate with movements and sounds. In the
play we have been working too muoh on sentences. and from our
speech comes the action. On the contrary. in life such people
do something with their hands or bodies, and the speech comes
as a result. Peasants do not work from their speech. but the
speech comes through their movements. I feel that perhaps the
rhythm of this play lies in the silences, and that the speech
does not motivate the actions.
The Golden Stood!
I should like to change everything about it. and
everything I did in it.
Peer Gmtl
I feel that the play should be developed in connec—
tion with the theme that the mother is leaving the place, and
that Peer is coming to her for escape. The mother's dying;

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

H. Chekhov July 18‘. 193?
3120135 his means of escape. with such an interpretation.. \ .
Peter's present character is too sympathetic.
Balladinm
The idea of the spiral in this play is the one
thing we should held on to and develop. This could be done
in the setting by continuing the spiral behind the Saint,
then the presence of the Saint would not lose its importance
as it does now. I feel that “melon and the mother should
come from below to above, and Balladina and Koetrin from 
above to below. In considering the style. we have never re-
alized that the play comes from the people. and that religion
plays a big part in it. And the Saint would have a signifi-
cance for Balladina, because it is a religion which comes
from the pee-plo. In Ballndinu I, we have not yet found how
the theme of love can be combined with the theme of killing.
which is all worked through with the theme of nature.
'Pwo Kings:
The director of this scene should find the relation—
ship of the group to the two kings. to the court. and new to
the curtains. The relationship of the crmld must be found.
 
Comments of Patrick Harvey: QIusician-Composerj
The Fishing Scene:

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

m. Chekhov July 18. 1937
Too compressed. Th\ere iomterial there for a play
about three times as long as the present scene. 'h'hOthe people
are. Md what thoy are doing is an important thing to estab-
lish. This in important from the nnmtivo point of View.
L'Ieshould know something about the characters and what they
are doing. Lfothor Gillard is surely a high point in the play.
If you are going to have her. certain responsibilities arise
in regard to her. You must show in detail the relationship
botrloon f-Iothor Gillurd and tho cmd. There are very good
gromdo for diam. if you make f-Eothor Gillard the object of the
crowd's hostility, although sho is a kind old person wanting
to holp them.
Balladimim
If those two scenes are to considered as parts of
the some play. I feel they lack unity. As a member of the
audienco. I require more explmmtion. For example. the audi-
ence should know why the mother is going mad. and why she has
been in the castle.
Poor Gmt:
Everything in the narrative is there for the audience.
Tho Golden Steedl
The "broad motif" sounds. There is no justification
for these sounds. There should be some rough working principle
about the use of somds in the scenes.

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

It}.Chekhov July 18, 1937
Two Kings x
\
I feel that the costume of the young is too great
a contrast to the others.
 
Comments of Felicity Cumingn
Ballndina El
The setting seems to ho tunodimenalonnl. The dis—
tinction between Balladirm as a human being. and Goplana. as
an elemental being is not clear.
Balladinu III
This seems to be in two parts. Up to the moment
when Gralon comes in, it in Run inspiring, but after his en-
tranco the audience seams to sit back. In choosing a costume,
the actual figure of the actor might be more considered.
Pear amt:
A‘t tho beginning there seems to be a good deal of
contrast between the two chamctom, but towards the end they
seem to take on each other's qualitioa.
The Goldog Stood:
I feel that this director in In danger of becoming
too "precious," because of his use of detail.
The Fishing Scenm

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

m. Chekhov July 18. 1937
The director :1er not soon to have sufficient con-
fidence in herself. and thia\mnkes it difficult for the ac-
tors. Even if the director knows that what she is doing is
not right. end the actors 1mm: it ie wrm. the director must
have sufficient confidence in her ability to carry the thing
through. with regard to the costumes, I felt that they had
no relation to the structures. end that tho'lighting had no
relation to the acting. There could be more connection and
hamony between them.
Two Kinm I
 
The characters soon to be too individual and have
no connection with each other. except for the costumes. The
contrast between the chaotic movements and the long eilcnces
was good. I felt there was too much repetition in the text.
(fir. Chekhov's comment: "I found the repetitions very beau~
tli‘ul. as in some of the legends and stories of Buddha, where
there is always repetition. It gives something rhythmical.")
,.
1'

===== PDF PAGE 26 =====

V. Chekhov July 15, 1937
Terence Horgan geommento]:
I would like to make a suggestion to all designers.
Before deciding on a set, the designer should set it up and
experiment to ace whether it can be easily moved or not. :
:he Fishing Scene: ' g
by impression is that the lighting makes the set too:
still. peaceful, and quiet; whereas it should make it more
tempestuouo. It seems to me that people Just walked on and
something happened.
Ealladinns {I and II):
The text of Balladina I saems to he very disjointed.
The idea of the spiral could be strengthened if there were a
bigger space to act on and there was actually a circular
stairway.
Hen Younz comments 1
Ballédinasx
The director has so many ideas, but is tookind to her
cast: she must be more of a dictator. she fact that all nature
is against Balladina is a theme which could be more developed.
Peer Gxnt:
Pcer's character should be much wilder and more
spoilt, and therefore, more lovable.
Two Kinmsx
Vary brilliant. The costumes seemed to be too color-
lesa. The director sometimes leads the audience up to a laugh,
and then does not give it to them. The audience is left
wondering-

===== PDF PAGE 27 =====

J. Chekhov July 18, 1937
John Sohoeooerle scomnentsll
The Fishing Scene:
my criticism in general is the way in which the dir-
ectors direct. This particular director should know more olearlx
just what she wants in the play. What mistakes there are. are 5
brought about by lack of clarity regarding the main idea. For -
example: Iother Gillard - why is she, and what is she doing?
The director must have more fooling for the main idea of the pkg
Balledinnsn
The same criticism applies here. The director does
not seem always to know what she wants.
Golden Stoodu
Tho director should try to think of and imagine the
play as a whole.
Gretel Sghroibor geuzgeetione)|
In every sketch I found that the music and noises
were the weakest part. The set of Peer Glﬂt was too horizontal
and too open.
Jocelyn Nyngn (suggestions):
The Fiehinv Scene:
 
AS a member of the coat. I felt groundless and weak.
Perhaps the director could give the cast more objectives at
different moments - something that we could fall back on when
inspiration gives out.
Ealladinasu
Whenever there was great tension on the stage. the
thunder got louder. I don't think the use of the dagger between

===== PDF PAGE 28 =====

H. Chekhov only 18. 1937
(Jocelyn Wynne's suggestions, continued)
Balladina and the Saint is very good. The connection between
Balladina and Kostrin was not clear. The voice of the mother
beginning with. "I an no murderer to wander in the night." gets
louder instead of dying away. The only connection I felt betweenﬁ
the two Ballodinao was the recurring sound made on the saw. The;
end of Balladino II had a strange casualnecs after the motherscam.
I don't understand the connection between Gopiana and the sisters.
The Two Kings:
The sceno between the two kings was too drawn out and
relied on the actoro for improvisation. I felt there was a lacs
of juetification at times.
Peer Gxntl
Peor does not seem to realize his mother's death,
although it was very clear to tho audionce. He should be more
rough. more of a peaoant; in ordor to give a greater contrast to
the dying mother. I felt I wanted the choir to rock.
Gavin T goucgeotionslx
Two KinUSI
 
About the costumes: I felt that the characters were
all too different to be put in the some color. I felt that the
Jaster's costume did not fit his voice.and his voice did not fit
his costume. The opening speech did not eeem to be up to the
standard of the rost of the text: the other repetitions were good.
Ballodina II
I like very much the interpretation or Coplana and xnld
see it worked out in the form of a dance. which would also help

===== PDF PAGE 29 =====

m. Chekhov July 18. 1937
(Gavin I suggestions. continued)
to convey the idea that she is an elemental being.
Balladina11.
I felt there should\be longer pauses and less movement.
There seemed to be too much movement for the tragedy of the whol;
thing, and the intimacy of the chapel scene was lost.
The Fishing Scene:
For my own part. I experienced difficulty in not being
able to fulfill my objective before I had to leave the stage.
General suggestions regarding costumes: It would be a great help
if the designers would consider the actual problems of making
the costumes when designin5.thema.
Joan Wolmag (susnestionglv
Two Kings:
When the new king is descending the steps. the curtain
falling down behind him is very good. The misc en ecbno during
the first part of the play was not clear. it was all too cramped.
with regard to the direction, John is always too nice about
overything and is satisfied too easily. If you have an objective
to please him, it is fulfilled before it should be.
The Fishing Scene:
The mise en scone was not clear. At times there was
not enough atmosphere. And I feel there should be a different
ending to it.
Balladino II:
In some parts the actors were acting what should be feltby the audience. their faces could not always be seen. In both

===== PDF PAGE 30 =====

2. Chekhov July 18. 1937
Ballndinaa the death of Alina and GrnIan should be shooting up
from the nplrnl, so that they should die on the right instead
of the left of the stage. In Balledina I the style was mins-
1ng and it was much too slow. \
’Pho Golden Steed x
There "an no feeling for the whole, and the style did
not seem to be there.
Pear Gzntx
The actual moment of the mother's death Hun not clear.
l‘inn (comments) 1
Enllndinn II:
Why does Koutrin so on and off at the beginning with-
out any reauon?
Pntricin G. comments:
“‘3ED!!!" Senna:
The thing that impressed :3 more than anything, was
how wonderful it Who to got the lmprcunion of the son into the
movementu of the nature. I think that if that could be carried
out fully. you could almost feel the breakers althout the help
or any sounda. W on could hnerease the feeling of thSLOﬂ by
lnoroauing the feeling of fear and yet clinging on to sozething.
At the end, when they have lost everything. the tension would
be ended.
l‘ha Coldog Stood:
I would nuggeot that thin would be made more simple.
I feel it in too complicated at the present tics.

===== PDF PAGE 31 =====

:41.Chekhov July 18. 1937
Balladina I:
I did not get the impression of a lake or a forest;
the setting struck :e as being rather artificial.
Peer Gzntx
The setting gave me the impression of a very still.
frosty night. and there sccwed to be no need of the mound of
the wind. The sound of tho aluigh hallo cooccd wrong to no.
because theso should be only in Aon'o aind. Poor loot too
quickly the impression that ho 00:00 from tho-outaido world
into the world of the dying mother. Ho banana too sympathetic
too quickly.
Eleanor Falcon: {commonts)
Balladinas:
Tho settings could b3 developed more effectively.
In Bnllndinn I thorn could be much corn space. In ggllgf
dinn I; it should be much more conproacad. with movcmants on
the vertical part. with regard to tho cooeucaa. I fool in
Boilndina I there should be a lot of color: and thorc should
on loan color in Dallndinn II. The ooatuzao should get stiffer.
and ohould chango during tho scone in Bollndina I. I think
Alina should b3 killed halfway down tho spiral. and Balladinn
should ho drivon down to tho and of it. rho Saint shuuld be
part way down the spiral. Ballodinn should face Kostrin.
The :other's destruction should happen further down the spiral.
Kostrin and Bullndina'o moveccntu should always be down. down.
Forhapo at tho and thorn could b3 some flashes of lightning
which would light up the back and reveal a reflection of the
setting of Eallsdinn I. Kontrin should alwoyu bo obviously
trying to got power over Balladina.

===== PDF PAGE 32 =====

:5. Chekhov July 18. 1937
The Fishing Scone:
Instead of ntnrting the play at the end of three days
of waiting, it might be possible to present the whole meta-
morphosis of waiting in the play and have it appear to lost
ono day. the Cast should be at a point of great anxiety at
tho and: whereas. by the end of three dnya, you have really
got beyond the most terrible tonoion. I would like to son
tho play started at n lover point or tonaion! no that it could
grow steadily through tho whole play. in incroouing waves.
The early morning atmosphere should to more elaborated.
This could be done by having tho people come in vdth longer
pauses in between: thoy could Just some in and sit and wait;
this would give a sullen and heavy quality. rho oocno should
be played on a lower cot. and the whole play might to much
lower and heavier in every respect.
Poor Gvntl
 
Tho catamorphonio of Fear is not clear throughout
the scene. Soaowhoro there should be some bigger lino of
development.
The Golden Stead:
The brother should be much more powerful in order to
make uu believe that they might really got up the mountain.
Tho pooplo should really be more in their power. Antin
should not give away the end of tho piny'so many timed.
The brothers' "Hold them!" scene should be closer to the place
where they enter the stage. Then they could hate ono line of
progrension from tho loft—hand corner up to the mountain and
down.

===== PDF PAGE 33 =====

3\ Chekhov July 18. 1937
Two Kings:
The metamorphosis of the crowd should to made much
clearer. Perhaps the idea the? they were really inventing
the two kings subconsciously could be elaborated in a very
interesting way.
Catherine anrinloon: (comments)
Fishing Scono:
rho style should be zero clearly defined. How it is
partly realistic and partly czpressioniutio. The rocks are
oxproooioniotio and tho noting is realistic. If the play is
to be realistic, We should do away with the set we have and
work along Fauls's suggestion about peasants. This could be
done by showing nuts or heats on the note. If it is to be
exprosoionistio. thou the whole thing should be intensified
much more. especially with regard to the acting.
Bolindinn I:
Tho set should be more expressive. Tho metamorphosis
of Goplonu's character should change her to a much more power-
ful being.
Bollndina II x
Tho gesture is not definite enough. and o more straight
up and down gesture would to better because it would show Bolla-
dina being driven, being more confined. Koatrin is a very
interesting character. and at the and he‘should be shown us a
scintillating, evil power. driving Balladinn down. The char-
acter of the Saint is very beautiful. but I feel that it should
be more significant. he do not know now quite what he is sup-

===== PDF PAGE 34 =====

:1. Chekhov July 18. 1937
posed to be. Perhaps he could he Bniludinn's conscience. His
face could be made up as a reflection of her face. and his move-
ments and speech could be similor to hers.
Peer Gznt:
There has not enough variety. The lights were too peace-
ful. and Peer wan too peaceful. It immediately lee: entered .Q
the room. it could become more and more rostleon, it would show
the idea of the ploy: that Aao lives and longs for Peer, but
as soon as ho conga. he disturba everything fer her - the room
night almost trouble. when Peer goes out into the world again
after him mother's death. it ahauld be different for him. This
might be done by lights to indicnta the greater ohnoo into
which he is going. When Peer tellu his story. tho notion is
much more interesting.
The Golden Steed:
The setting in too lyrical for tho coutuocu and the
present figurcu.
Tho Two Kinenx
Perhaps this play could be more stylized. but also
more human. The dirootor'u mistake when approaching the play
was that he gave the atylizotion firnt. If he would begin with
tho hunnn part next term. the play would be much funnier and
much more tragic.
Yirian Gnrtho: (comments)
Balladina II: The Saint plays such an important role
in the first port of the scene. and then seems to lose his
connection. The noiaes and sounds offstage when the mother

===== PDF PAGE 35 =====

:a. Chekhov July 13. 1937
enters are too primitive and too obvious. The rhythm of the
whole play is often disturbed by the thunder.
Peer Gvnt: \
Poet's costume is too soft in color and texture.
Two Kinnnl i
The use of the echo is too primitive.
Peter Tunnnrdx (comments)
Poor Gzntx
Tho director should so very cautiously in trxhing to
develop color in the play. He should oonacntrote on trying to
develop Poet's character noxt tern. but ho should remember
that it is a very short scone. and perhaps it would be better
to take only two sides of Peer's character and devolop them
fully. Don’t bring in too many of his varied characteristics.
Perhaps only his love for his mother, and his imagination.
Bullndinn I:
mmwsmeﬂmnwcwanknmnweWWMMn
and clarity in developing those interesting and fantastic
qualities in tho scene, but in doing it vnth much more pre-
cision make them vaguo. Perhaps the motor should act it nat~
urslistieolly at first. and then build the strange waving
movements on this solid foundation. I would like to compare
The Fishinz Soeno and Bnllndinn I. In The Fishing Scene,
you feel it is too hurried and not a big enough gosture, while
in Unllndinn I it is too slow and the gestures not big enough.
The connection between the two sisters should be explored.

===== PDF PAGE 36 =====

z. Chekhov July 18. 1937
Enllndinn. II:
I feel after watching this scene that something heavy
is dragging me down. not just the pure tragedy. but something
too heavy and not sufficient1y\tragie.
The Fishin: Scene:
I think it is very rich. I think the Father Dillard
scene should be a much more important moment in the play.
I feel the ending is wrong; it makes no unhappy. Perhaps the
sounds at the and are wrong. There is late of material in the
scene. but the proportions are all wrong. It would be very
interesting if the tempo; were or entirely different propor-
tion. The quarrel scone should develop more slowly, and the
actual quarrel should not take so much time.
The ending in Bnllndina II is a very good line; it
should be elaborated and made more clear. 0n the other hand.
the ending of the Two Kinza is weak and leaves the audience
without any Idea of that it has been all about.
l‘wo Kim's:
The director should try to find a new psychological
gesture for the whole play. one that would give the actors an
idea or the whole play.
The Golden Steed:
If the director continues along the Home line. he nuet
find the connection between the setting. the text. the cos-
tumes. the characters. etc.

===== PDF PAGE 37 =====

N. Chekhov July 18, 1937
Deirdre Hurst x (comments)
The general suggestion to all directors.thot they work
even more closely with Hiss Crowther. will prevent the loss of
much time and effort, because tf the directors have a clear
iden of what they want, Miss Crowthcr is nblo to direct her
work along the some lines. In this way. the character and
the speech will be developed simultnnaouuly.
Tho Golden Steed:
I nlwnya feel in this scene o look of bustification
and fooling of truth. This is due. perhaps, to the many old
things which have come to us from work done in the pout. But
unless this feeling of truth is found. the scene will never be
convincing. either for the actors or the audience.
Bullndinn I a
I felt this scene was unreal, without being real. A
dream without the reality from which the dream could spring.
The lovely.pncte1, Japanese quality of the setting |had obt
aolutoly no connection with the heavy. violent netting cf
Bnllndinn II. The covenants of Bnlladinu I were too styl-
ized and onmo from an entirely different world than those
used in Bnllndino II. At the present moment those two
oconou have no connection. I felt that the pauses were too
long in many instances and lacked Justification. Goplann's
character must be elaborated in every way. she muut belong
to another world. At the moment. there are really three
worldn in this scene: the faint world of reality, the too
ntrong dream quality. and the elemental world of Soplonn.

===== PDF PAGE 38 =====

F. Chekhov July 18. 1937
These merge into one another, but without a clear understand-
ing ef where their boundaries are. The style must \n more
clearly defined.
Ballndinn II:
I feel the biggest task at the moment is for the char-
acterfte try to find eaeh other in the sketch. we are still
acting individual performances without sufficient relation to
each other.
Peer GVntx
I felt the 01d misc on scene. when Peter stood up by
the mother's bed, was better. It gave variety. and at the
same time oreutod two worlds: the intimate world with the
mother. and the world in which Peer has been living since he
left the mother. thn he stands up. the director can use hin
height to make the mother even more broken and nnnliz it will
also give the audience a suggestion of tho staggering quality
of Peer. which Juntifieo his lacking away from his mother.
and becoming engrouscd in his own brdvedo at that time.
This would also inerease the tragedy of the mueeut when he
turns to her and finds her dead. She hae been. in a sense,
his audience during the quarrel with St. Peter.
Two Mingus
I felt the first mise en soEne very confused at times:
the cast was all huddled in one corner for no apparent reason.
there seemed to be no form to it. and there were too many
inconsequential movements. The use of the curtain added to
the confusion. and it looked as if the actors hnd been

===== PDF PAGE 39 =====

Chekhcv July 13. 1937
ﬂunustomed to a much larger apnea, and were gettinz in one
unothcr'n way. I would suggest that the curtains ahould come
right down in tho "Thrcna Room ﬁcono"; otherwise the half-
eoncealed space behind them Is tory confusing to the audience.
Itmsmmdunwntowﬂmwmwwuo“mummtmmMs
and which 1mxe trivini ones. Ihcuo aunt be found in order to
givo form to the play. The aovomsntu could b: almost clock-like I
in their precisiOnx they should never be naturalistic. There
munt be some clear idea of what the play ham hccn about when
tho uurtnin comcs down, but at the mocant this dons not exist.
Sugaoutionn mndo hv Minn Cronthcr, in oonnuution with the
nerfurmnncn of July 12: igjzx
ﬁnch that has been said today also applica to our
work with the voice. when I listened to tho sounds yesterday.
the apaooh seemed so small in every case. and the voices
were thin.
In many cases, the character suallovad the npceoh
in this scene. For example. in Blair's cuss. there was a very
clear character there. but the speech was not clear. It is
really more helpful to begin with u atruieht character in
speech, and then add the characteristics 9n to it.
The Fishing Scene:
At the opening momant. many of the words were lost.
t
and many of the smaller words wgrk loat throunist particularly

===== PDF PAGE 40 =====

:1 Chekhov 1‘11?1"- 1937
at the beginning of the speeches. The nudience should never
have to wonder about the words. the speech was all very small,
and should be much bigger in aqnture. We must learn to be able
to express joy in our voices, without the quality of tragedy.
We must learn to speak out of n distance and to a diatunce.
An important point is the hand gestures whioh have been H
Riven to help you to get movement in the speech. This has gone.
to such an extreme that you now uue your whole bodies and really
not tension in your npoeoh. In future we must take away all
hand movements until you can learn to uue them properly.
Some things cannot be excused. After being told
twice. you should never have a fault in pronunciation. nor a
wrong vowel sound.
lhlladinn Ix
inch of tho spoooh unu not heard. Goplonn's accent
pulls her up. It you find yourselves being pulled back each
time you speak. your ohnrnocer will be loot.
Golden Stood:
Sons of the voioon not right into tho hand. and some
drnulod. Tho "Silvor Fonent" was so very small that it did
not express anything.
You should never feel that the «nature hampers you;
it should always rennin flexible. with regard to noises and
music offstage. I was nstoninhod when I hoard the music in
Peer Gynt. because the words were not audible above it. when
such a thing is attempted. it must he rehearsed many times in
order to find the right harmony between the voice and the sounds.

===== PDF PAGE 41 =====

H. Bhokhov July 13. 1937
Sometimes the character was lont. and this any have
been on account of the speech. For instance. the mother in
Balledinn II lent her character at tinen. but the direction
or the whole character was much bigger.
ihe similarity of the voioen hunt be watched. we
must have unity in the may we speak. but you must keep your
own voiceu and your own characteristics. this you must watch
for yourselvoa very carefully. You will novor be given a pitch
in voice. or n placing. which will make your voice like anybody
elao's. You must keep your own voice and develop it.
:mxt term we will develop the dramatic. tragic. and
lyric stylon. which we need so badly.
I would suggest that in future the texts should be
vary carefully considered before the play in begun. Tony of
tho lines in our present texts nre poor on far no the English
is concerned, and some are very difficult to speak: this applies
particularly to translations.
I would suggest when rehenraing in the future . that
the time be given for us to work as a group in each scone. It
would really be more helpful than the individual work. and this
way rm would know what tho director really wants. we must
know where the voice of each character is to he placed.