

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Hichael Uhokhov gunnery 25. l9}?
 
hEhEASSAL of i
{S ‘10 “ISA; hoorbhﬁ
A1 esp \ ‘
£183 5 SCdLu
OBJEC iVE
FLYLLG OVER Th5 PLAY
Stanislavsky
  
  
 
nalladipgx
Let us speak about the exercise with the three women
around the hearth. Again I must give the name foreword — i
will be very pedantic in order to be vory clear. lhis was a
very instructive instance of the use of right and wrong points
from a theoretical point or View. As far as L can judge, the
director, Mrs. Elmhirst, in her approach to the play has very
deep ideas of how to explore and what to explore. but she does
not have the right approach to discovering the ideas she has.
PSYCHOLOGICAL GWSTURW:
it is very right to give ﬁalladina the two poles ~
one of warmth and the other cold. Those are two powers which
are fighting with one another in Balladiua. but thedireotor
has not used the full possibility offered by these two poles.
because she has started something but hes not continued it.
You can use these two poles for developing a psychological
gesture, or you can use the idea for atmosphere.
ATMOSPHERE:
Again you have spoken about atmosphere. and again
it was left without being developed. You have not told your
actors how to enter into the atmosphere - whether by imagination
or movement, etc. The director wanted to use the work as
a step on which to reach this warm family atnosphere, which
could bind them together. but instead of y
 
- very simple

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
W. Chekhov ‘y 35- 193?
rhythmical movement Ior the work. she fell into mere natural-
   ism. Alina did not find the‘r q t movement. and it became
more and more naturalistic. the director should have given
one simple movement which could have been repeated again and
again. Ear the mother, as for Alina, she gave very va;ue
psychological gestures. I could guess what you as the director
were meaning. but it was not given, it was pot a real gesture.
The gullihg of the chair was the most real gesture. but it
was not explained what had to be reached by it, and how it
was to be reached.
Then there was the possibility of balladinn near the
cold pole, waiting for something from the outside. “hat it
means to leave the warm pole — this is a whole composition 0:
gestures. ahat it means to go further and further away; what
it means to enter into a cold sphere; what it means to have
an openi.5 before her — it is a whole scale or gamut of
psychological gestures. if you wanted Ualladina to move the
chair, for instance, you could have given her the gesture to
be on the edge of the warm atmosphere, than have her make a
gesture of refusal and a gesture to go into the cold atmosphere
and be contracted, and before the Opening 5he is WaitiLg. it
is possible to open oneself in a warm atmosphere. and quite
 
to open in a contracted state.
 
another thiy
But the director has not giver such
 
if the chair is only a haturalis
 

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

I. Chekhov January 25, 1937
give the actor nothing. But if. for instance. she had been
given the gesture to cling to material things - she could
have been bound to material things - then this would give her
something.
The director has used the term "symbol" very often.
You do not need to say that this is a symbol - it is reality
for your exercise. it is a real series of warm. hot rays.
But when you have given this conditional reality. than you
may tell them that this is your family. etc.. on the ground
of the reality. You gave the condition of this reality.
You have to build the aura and build the whole story. dhen
you told them that the chair was a fireplace, this was a
condition. not imagination. This is the same as the "abyss?
About the mother's position. Cnly one of the
gestures you gave her was a tool psychological gesture, when
she had to draw back the chair. Khere was nothing to act.
it is not possible to act by having nothing for action.
what the mother should have done was only to do the movement
and draw Bulladina back.
M18? EN sofa; hirector's ideas were right but the approach
was vague. Today it wan a mixture of gestures not quite
clear-cut. it was a mixture with atmosphere but not quite
clear. it was a mixture with mise en scone. Each :ise
en sczno can be very speaking and revealing for the actor if
it is given with a very special aim, just as with novcment.
_ . . \ .
if we give a very happy also on scene and try :0 ezplore it

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

H. Chekhov January 25, 1937
the same as we do with gesture. it will awaken something;
By setting the fireplace andxtha work, the actors should
have explored what it meant, but they did not. ihe whole
exercise was a mixture or elements. none of which were led
to its real and.
If you tell your actors to imagine that the chair
is a fireplace. the actor must not imagine anything to do
with the chair. but he must see a picture in his imagination
and then he can accept the chair as his imaginary fireplace.
The sewing scene was too naturalistic. Ehis can be used as
an exercieo for the feeling of truth. You could have given
them one rhythmical movement together.
THE OBJEcqﬁxE% was a mixture with the objective. If you
had given Alina the action of caressing her mother. that
would have been a definite objective. If you give an objective
then you only need to require a feeling of truth - you need
not avoid naturelism if you ask for the feeling of truth. A
caress can also be a peyehological gesture. One or the
main prixmipleo of our method is that each thing can be applied
to another.
Let us look at a flight or steps. and see it has a
gesture. now imagine that the stops are wider - this is another
gesture. now imagine that the steps are red - this is another
gesture. iherefero. it means that for us everything can he,
must be. turned to another thing. Jo have to act so that
in acting We produce colors around us. axﬂ the colors in our

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

n, Chekhov January 25. 193?
settings must create our parts. This is what we have to under-
stand in our three year courée of training, first of all
We must develop our inner technique so that we will under-
stand the thing of a flight of steps as colors, music, settings,
costumes. etc. He must develop our abilities to such an
extent that we will be able to see the movement in each thing
in the world. If, for instance, the red color is moving
towards us then we Know how to act, and the same is true of
each color we must wear on the stage. in order to act the ¢eeture
on the stage. Therefore. the term significance cannot be
substituted for geoturo.
The director must always know what is going on in
his actor's soul, but the actor must also know n23 to reach
what the director asks of him. Therefore the director must
tell his actors what to do and the means by which to achieve
it.
Let us go back to the idea or moving the chairs
and leaving Alina without one. This was a very good idea,
but it must be given in some way so that it can be £222» not
understood. You must know how to ﬁg your idea, and for this
purpose you have at your disposal the psychological gesture,
mine on scone. etc. #hen the director gives the psychological
gesture, it must be given in a very cleer fcrm. Today there
were too many and. therefore, none were clear. it would be
better to give one gesture - let us say warmth and cold. If
everyone had done this the whole cast would have experienced

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

M. Chekhov January 25' 1937
these two extremee. bur souls need time to explore and ex-
perience - if this is allowed, the director can give the actor
a gesture and he will give back an aura. If you feel that
the actor is acting without aura. you muet ask him to go back
to the gestures, atmoepheres. etc. The actor will never get
the aura from nothing — it must be prepared.
Question:
Is it necessary to go back further in the play than
where it begins, 1.0. to antoccdo?
Answer I
Not alwaye. This depends upon the play. In “Peer
Gynt” it was necessary. but in "Balladina" the lovely atmosphere
of the home was not important, whereas the gesture of warm to
cold was important. Warm and cold in the main theme - the cold
kills the warmth and the exploration of this can give a
beautiful aura.
It is very dangerous to go back further than where
the play beginu because there is no limit. Who can tell you
where to step? In the Moscow Art Theatre we have created our
whole families, and lost eureelvee. From many years of Working
with Stanislaveky I believe that this thing leads us to very
vague fields, and we are hardly ever able to find our way
back. To a certain extent it can be good, as in the case of
Peer Gynt. But in the case of eellagirg t is much more help-
ful to work with the gesture of warmth and cold which is fan-

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

M. Chekhov January 25. 193?
tastically right.
Very often the secture is modified. and the director
must once again have an eye for this. is this modification
good. and does it enrich the gesture or not? The actor must
feel that if he does well it will be shown to him, and if he
goes vmong it will be told to him. The psychology of an actor
iatnch that if he feels very vaguely that he is doing some-
thing, he in not able to tell whether it is right or wrong.
When the actor feels that the director tells him nothing, he
loses the activity for doing it. Therefore the director must
not only have an idea of what the future performance will be,
but he must really direct each person, each moment. Then this
cooperation. which in so difficult. will gradually get a form,
a shape.
FLYING OVER THE PLAY:
The Fairv Tale:
As the director, try to find in your preparatory
work such gestures which will embrace the whole performance.
and then try to proceed to the details. it is not good for
the director to know too much. and the actors too little.
The director must lead his east through the whole performance,
and then he must show one part, and thenagain thevhole or
one big section. if you keep your cast for a long time in
one place you will meet difficulties later when you start
your rehearsals. You will find that one section of the play
which is aboolutely clear to you is untouched by your actors.

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

H. Chekhov January 25. 193?
For example, Alan found the whole picture for P or G t. and
now we wait for details. Thb actors are beginning to feel a
need to know the whole performance, not only one moment of
it.
The actors must be given the gossibility to fly over
the whole play. Later, when you begin to compose things on
the stage you will not be so free, you will have to be con-
centrated on certain moments until you are satisfied.
‘ilorlI
Quiet as opposed to chaos. Explore these two worlds
and let the quictnooo conquer tho chaos.
A0 a director. Alan must find in his work in general
moro activity, more tempo. Sometimes he is too slow and his
oust has too much time and he louoa their interest and activity.
Cur principle is to work together with the playwright. musician.
etc. The whole cast must be together in each moment until
the collective work is shown to tho audience. From the
beginning to the end it must be 93; theatre. 93; performance,
etc.
The Gulden Stung:
Continue the work with goutures and repeat them
while someone speaks the lines.
The Fishinn Scene:
It is better for the director to refer to the

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

7. Chekhov January 25, 1937
fiahcr folk as'lhoy” rather than "you" when working with
\
natipn. This releaées the cast and they will be
 
more free in their imaginations than if you refer to them a:
“you: which ‘nmediately makes them contract and wonder how
they will do it or "act" it. it l:mibits your cast to refer
to them as “your. lry a gesture of drawing - with your imaginary
 
handa and your lemming. until you lay hands upon the imaginary
boat and bring it safoly in.
Balladgngs (Director's exercise).
Alina ontors. walking in a circle in a fast tempo
followed by Balludina walking in a slower tempo. bus goes to
the right of the circle. the other to the left. Thoy pass
ouch other a number of times and then finally touch three
the third time is the moment of destruction. doplanatimes
is in the center of the circle. and when Balladina runs off
into the woods, Joplana followa her and brings her back to
face her crime.
gaggiclqgu
directors will find the way themselves, and will
not better answers from their work than from me, but I will
give some suggestions. As a director, ﬁrs. Slmhirst has a
conception of the play on a very deep ahd good level. but
aha V ves her cast too much all at once. lL this exarcise
 
ror iLstan  today she gave the whole 3cm
 
logical gesture which you “EV?

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

II. Chekhov - January 25. 1937
but in a general form. You must go gradually to such exercises
as you gave today. There wore too many elements, and the
actors were not yet ready to experience than. later. when We
extend kho whole scheme, you will find that you will be able
to do sketches such as you did today.
In order to got everything as complete as possible
in the for: of a psychological gesture in such an exercise
as you gave today. you would have to have several rehearsals
and work in great detail. You must lead your aotorc gradually.
If you clarify each gesture they will tell you very much. For
instatce, the gesture of touching Balladina'n forehead - this
can be done from chovo. as if Goplano were pushing her down.
Goplanu should explore her own world of tho elonental forces
which she can draw up.
You must penetrate deeper into the character of each
psychological gesture. and then you will get more from them.
If you give a gesture and then explain something about it. it
will grow like an aura. like a germ from which the aura will
grow. Dying on the stage is so interesting. and can be given
in such different ways. ,ihis way of dying gradually when
Alina is touched by Balladinu ﬁhreo tines is a beautiful idea,
but it must be done again and again until you get the result
of this oxperienco. .
In our scheme the first level means the firs? stop
we must take to approach the play as actors and directors.
'Tho second level is what we must do a little later — this

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

M. Chekhov Junuary 25- 1937
must be found by the director himself. If you will study this
scheme you will find many ways of approaching the play besides
the yuychological gesture. If you study the scheme you will
find many possibilities. For inutanco, the syeech formation
is an independent power for approaching the play.