

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
1H};
Michael Chekhov July 11, 1938
FREE ACTING
IMPROVISATIOB
METHOD
FEAR OF FLOURDERING
OBJECTIVE
FEELIHG 0F TRUTH
ELABGRATIEG THE FORM OF THE PLAY
The Group Theatre
Mstislav Dobujinsky
FREE ACTIKG:
_ This is acting; simply acting, presuming that the
grounds of the Method are there. Quito frao. You will act
the following theme quite freely: the words. the psychology;
etc.. and you will see from this how far you have been able
in digont tho mothadu
XMEEOVISATICNI
Tho theme has been taken from'onc of Hayptmanhss
plays, but we will interpret it differently. uWo shall take
it'in three parts - follow with your imagination, which
means to act inwardly. The family condiats of tho mother.
her two acne, and an old lady friend of the mathor's. who.
with her daughter lives in the house on the second floor.
Ii‘is a condonplaoe ucono - they have no problcmu. It is
like water which is quiet - commonplace. This in the first
scene.
The second piece» lho husband was a very strange
man. alwuya sitting in his room on the third floor] writing
something which nobody knows about] always thinking about

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
m. Chekhov July 11. 1938
oomothingl a very egotistical. despotic person who was the
cross for the family; He dominated the family with his strange
nature. a despot whom nobody could find any psychological
approach to. He was always putting around himself a gloomy.
heavy. tragic atmosphere‘- a tragic person whose influence
was darklgloemy. and tragic.
' on one occaoion one of the son's struck the father:
this was a tragic moment for the mother and for everyone.
and the father disappeared from tho houoe. hobody has heard
from him since, and they do not know whether he lives or has
died. They have gradually come to thin comfortable passive
state. and they have become accustomed to the idea that the
father in dead. and this has given the: peace: Then comes
the moment when a otrange old poroon io otanding there at
the door like a phantom. You must act from the moment when
they coo the father. to the moment when they open the door
and ask him to come in. What happens during that space of
time?
The third piece sterte from the moment when the
father enters the room. All the old feelings of disaster
come back to then again. They muot start again this life
with this strange person. although they have loot the approach
to this former life. Gradually they notice something new
in thin strange old man: came idea is torturing him.
The audience muot discover that the idea which is
torturing the old man is the blow which he got some yearn

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
M. Chekhov July 11. 1938
age from his son. How it livoe in the father's mind in the
following way: he was euro e11 thoee‘yeere that the son
pureuee him. and he could not acquire peace hecnueo he has
been possessed by this idea that the son in following him to
give hie another blow. that is why he could not resist the
temptation to come back and 200 the eon perhaps finally to
get the blow. He must see the eon; Gradually. in a very
fine way as all people are who have a fixed idea. he tries
to find the approach to the eon. either to_got‘the hlow or
to be reeonoilled. how the family notices that he in mad.
and this is only one of the points by which he is pureued
because he is really pureuod by a persecution manic.
Thin ie the third part which comes to the point
Where something will happen which you will eolve out of your
improvieetiou. What is the last point? Where is the moment
when the curtain comes down? Something must happen; It
muetbe a psychological point. Leave it to your performance.
You will act. and if it is succesoful you will find a solution.
When you feel that the theme is fulfilled, you will finish
the play. Another condition: the father must not this med
state in an artistic way. It must not have anything to do
with hysteria. It muet be an artietio performance and not a
clinical approach at all.
I have chosen this definitely psychological thing
so that you can apply the method in a very psychological way;

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
§\\\ Q
M. Chekhov July 11. 1938
not to outor things but to the psychology.
Tho old servant has boon like a lost dog without
his maoter. This strange uorvant is like an animal, like a
beautiful big dog. Try to rely on your artistic nature and
act without the method. but if you fool during the work that
you have loot yourself. that you hood somo help, then appeal
to tho Hethod.
Criticism: It was obvious that many good sparks.
good possibilities were there, but only sparks and possibilities.
It is good to be able to spark in improvisation. but it in
hotter if you know what wan wrong. if course from each point
"of tho Method it loavoa Genothing to ho said. For example.
onncnntratiog. Woro you noro concentrated on the scene in
general. or were you conoognod with the development of the
theme? Thin in tho way to'o very wrong thing, which is to
satisfy the audience. If you will concentrate on this uooleBo.
fruitless thing of being all right, it will lead us to try
to satisfy the audience and forgot4tho real things.
If we look at it from the point of atmonohoro we
will find again sumo memento of atmosphere. but why was it
not developed? Bocauuo you do not holiovn in this atmosphere
as something which inopireo us. Instead of taking tho ut-
moophoro and being inspired by it. you tried to think what
you Would do and what words you would speak.
ﬁETHGDx

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
EW‘S:
M. Chekhov July 1.1. 1938
You muot go over all the points because it is quite
obvious what happened. but I want only to point out one thing
which wag important for all of no. both for the old actors
and the new actors. It is something which can be cured when
a group decides to have a certain method - only a method can
cure this thing. The Group Theatre hae a method and that in
why they are acting better than othoro — the method haa cured
them. They are acting profoooionally because they have a
certain method. a certain ground for their work. They are
always trying to acquire new skilfullnese in their profession,
therefore they act so well.
FEAR OF FLOUhDERING; .
But when a group of aotoru has no ground, no method.
no system. then you will see something such on that which has
spoiled the whole sketch today — tremendoue 395; ~ fear of
floundering - and therefore you have floundered none. And
what done the method actually give. if it is taken? It must
give the ability never to flounder. because in each case we
.havo a certain means to take and if to take these means no
will neuor flounder. At the moment nhon uoEfcgl‘thatiweunro
 
not floundering, we 'aoo:nbthin51toffeeskou enhauowenlyeto
2013 on our talent - but not without the Method. because if
I rely only on my talent I will be good for rive minuton.
and the rest of the time a fool. The Method is given only as
something to rely uyon.

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
MIC/i § ‘2’\‘\
ﬂ. Chekhov July 11. 1938
Our school. which tries to give the method. tries
to give the meet preciouo thing. and the actor who will not
take the method is compelled to flounder his whole life. or
to become an actor full of etirf muscloo and habits which are
hie ground, He in no longer an artist, he in a craftsman,
sometimes not even that. To kill our talent means to rely
on certain habits. while to use our talent means to rely upon
a method which will give us help at any time. To flounder
means to rely only upon talent.
This tremendous fee: which we have seen today led
you to all possible eiotekoe. Instead of following your own
inner line of the psychology. simply by being concentrated
on your pertnore. you could have followed this inner line
and created movements. eituetions. words. eto.. instead of
which you have fallen into thin abyss of fear. Cur intellect
io eluaye coming to our rescue with wrong words.
Inetoad of following your own psychological pattern,
you became afraid and asked yourself. "What shall I do?"
At once the intellect cane and whiepered to you to any such
and such, and at once the whole thing is dead. Inetead of
developing this peyohology of two persons who have net after
so many yearn, the intellect canoe and asks quoetiene.A If
the intellect has taken power over your being instead of the
Method. at once everything will be dead. You can be sure of
it, theoretically and practically.
It was a marvelous example of how hopeleoe it is

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
H, Chekhov _ July 11. 1938
to appeal to the talent alone. and the only thing which can
save us is to be bravo enough to say, this in my method on
which I otand. Until your naturo.will understand this secret.
you will always bo.floundor1ng - if today is a happy flounder—
ing. then tomorrow will be an uhhappy one. it makes no differ-
ence hooauso it.1s still flounqoring. At some moment you
must decide that you are in tho school because you can got
the ﬁbthod and assimilate it with great offort - not loss
than tho musician who dooa his oxeroiooo for years and years.
Our profession £5 even more complicated. but until we got
this idea that tho Method in neceosary for every ground. we
will be compelled to flounder and to be victims of tho phon—
tom which is alwayg chasing us . fear. Fear before the audi-
once as to whether we aatiofy them; whether we are in harnonyr
with our partners; phantoms of roof. and as a result it _
becomes our means of death, which is our intellect; and we
are killed and we become puppots.
Use today's experience as an impuloo to understand
that without the Method we are lost and will be amateurs
forever. with the method we can create the future not only
for ourselves, but for the future in general.
And the Method can only be takuh if your whole life
is concentrated on getting it. Why do you dare to think
that you have only to enter the stage, put on make-up. and
you aro already artists - never, never, never. This is a
very bad idea which has grown up. that to be an artist on the

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
84‘:o. K
M, Chekhov July 11. 1936
stage is simply to get a part. Never, never. never.. The more
we go on the more clearly we will see that the theatre is
dying out because there is no technique. no method underneath.
But here in the school. in such marveloua surroundings and
conditions; shall we spend our lives to become. after a few
years. amateurs? It is much more interesting to decide to
put the first stone for a building which will be later on a
real technique for our art, which does not exist now.
I have told you this many times. and I must opologizo
for the repetition. but I muet tell you again because I soe
where the mistake in. The mistake is that the Method in here.
but we are over there. We listen about the Hothod. but we
do not make the real effort to take it and with great efforts
to digest it. To digest it. otherwise W0 are weak amateurs.
even if we are geniuses. This is only to remind you why we
are here. It has given me the opportunity to remind you again
of these very important points.
IMPROVISATIDHI
Another theme] again on the some basic - we are
noting freely but when we are floundering we will try to get
what we need out of the method. The scene is a heath through
which goes a long. long road. Empty space. On this long.
long road we see a onull house - a rcsthoueo for transients.
In this house there ﬁre a certain number of people living
there. It 1o nighigfo stormy night. a gloomy night. a fright-
1.

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
m:
H. Chekhov July 11. 1938
ful night. There is a very simple clean room with a lamp
on the table. Some people are in this room and there in a
very etrenge mood. B utrange atmosphere. It seems as though
they are listening for something. very attentive, very con—
centrated. Gradually they hear some bolls: somebody approaches
the house) someone drives along this endless road. lhoy
are waiting for these guests to oome.
The sound of the bolls comes nearer and nearer. and
finally the horse stops outside. Then we see another strange
thing - all the people move quickly and do things which they
have done many times before. There is nothing of the real
preparation for receiving guests. but something very strange.
‘Aftor half a minute or quick preparation, we see that the whole
room is changed and we 800 a family sitting at the table.
The father opens the bible and roads aloud. and all the others
are sitting around picualy. The whole family seems to be very
quiet and religious, sitting and reading the bible oh this
stormy night. Everything is stately, religious, and quiet.
Someone knocks at the door; they greet them as ﬂuent:
and the whole pious atmosphere ombracoo the new people who
have come out of the storm and rain. They bring their luggggo
into the room. beds are orepared for them and they are given
food and everyone is quiet and pious. They all sit at the
table and all is well.
Then gradually we see that again a certain change
takes place. When the guests are eating the family around

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
M. Chekhov _ July 11. 1938
than gives them more and more to drink. and simultaneously
but in a very fine manner we see those people become more
and more gay and free ehd sing songs to the sound or the
accordion. They become even more gay as the pceplo drink
too much - although they don't grink - and they change the
pious religious atmoephere and begin to dance end try to
twirl the gueute around and do everything to make them dizzy.
Gradually it becomes a real orgy, and when the guests have
quite lost their eoneee they put them to bed. and in an
inetant the gay atmosphere etepe, and we see the people trying
very quietly to search the luggage and rob tho-guests of
everything. It is a gang of robbers and this is their manner
of stealing. They do their business very okilfully, like
jugglere; They put paper in the luggage so that they will
not suspect that they have been robbed.
But this time was not :0 happy for than; The three
persons who came as guests are really policemen who want
to get this nest of robbers. At the moment they begin to
rob, the police juny up and begin to fight with the gang.
and try to catch them and shoot them. After a very long
fight the police overpower the robbers. Another group of
policemen enter; The first moment is before the guests enter
the room - this is the introduction. Then comes the big inter-
esting peycholegicel business when the pious people arrange
themselves. The second part is when the guests have fallen
asleep and are being robbed. The third part is the fight with

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

  
\SXL \:9\
M. Chekhov July 11. 1938
the police. The epilogue will be the empty stage — the stage
will not this because of the atmosphere.
Criticism: The more sure you are. the better you
act - it is quite obvious. To to euro means to have a method.
to be sure means to act better: to act hotter moans to use
your talent. For}aga you have noticed the following in this
case; sometimcn your action was disturbedby doing things
schematically. instead of doing thempsychologically or even
physically.
One of the greatest enemies in our art is. first
the fear we haveyspoken of, and the other is to perform the
scheme instead of the real inner or outer action. For instance,
when you fill the glasses too quidﬂy. you have alnoady spoiled
your psychology. It will take you time to get back your real
human feeling of truth. You spoil your paychology by these
untnuo things. It means that something was already wrong in
our gsychology, and instead of correcting it we make schemes
on the basis of this wrong psychology, and on the basis of
this wrong action we have a lot of wrong psychological moments
later on.
For instance. I pretend an a policeman. I an pro-
tending that I an drinking, but I am pretending without any
aim. If I pretend that I an drinking. it must be for a
certain aim to fool someone. and this is the most fine
schematic action. I pretend that I an drinking in general -
but there is nothing in general on the stage, ever. It must

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

 
N..Ghakhov _ July 11. 1938
be something definite: for some definite aim. and we call
this the objectigg.
. OBJECTIVE:
if I pretend I an drinking, without having an ob-
jective. it will only be a scheme which leadu to diooonnootlon
with one'o partners. At the moment an actor is "in general."
he lone: his partners. It in like a fog in our profession.
Bad actors have tho fooling that they are acting marvelounly -
no if drunk ~ and they are happy. but it is only in general
on the stage. as a schema without definite things which should
be fulfilled. and then no would one a living person without
scheme.
FEELIfz'G OF. Tﬁ UTH:
For instance. it was a stormy night, and you entered
without having any connection to it. It was simply a scheme
of entering, but there in no entering "in general," no exit
"in general," it is alwoyo gang entrance. gong exit. And
if you had been truthfulienough to enter by taking this storm
with you, you Would have discovered inside you the most
beautiful thing. the beautiful wonder which in your own
talent. But if you are only ochematio, the talent will not
respond.
If you were more careful with this truth - I don't
mean always naturalism - but the feeling of truth aheuld be

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

 
623:9...
d.‘Chekhov July 11, 1938
there. If you had been truthful the whole time. and schemes
had not shut the box in which is your talent, you would have
taken many suggestions which you gave each other, but which
you could not take or develop.
For instance, Beatrice found some way to send them
to sleep - it could have been taken by everyone. as if you
were casting a spell over your victims. Eut it wan only
beginning. and the a scheme came and it was dead. When you
developed the guy part you did not reach the climax, because
you started with some trivial things; Then it came to the
scheme in general and you could not reach the climax;;£§:ueee
uot ended or accomplished, and the feeling of the uholo was
not there. r
In the first sketch tlero was the fear Which cameo
when we have no ground under our feet. This can be cured
by the method. In the second scene we met these schemes which
are always trying to catch us. but they can be cured hy the
feeling of truth. Try to appreciate the good moments. and
imagine them and throw them liko a ball from one to the other.
The scene at the end was unexpected and very fine. After today
you must have two ideasu 1. Overcome fear by the Method.
2. overcome dead schemes by the feeling of truth..
BMBCRATIECGTHE {whoop ms guy:
I am always with you in my heart and thoughts and
the days cannot separate us. although I have had to be away

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

 
FEM.
.vq p\
M. Chekhov . July 11. 1938
from you for several days. But in order that you may be with
me. I want to tell you what I havo to do. We are working
on the settings and the texts of our two plays. hurry is try—
ing to got the plot elaborated more and more, Sijat in hie
funny light and free scones the audience will be able to follow
the inner lino. because even in this funny story there moot
be a serious inner lino. On this line all the jokes and
floating things can be put. We are going from one Boone to
the other. and are groduolly getting more shape and form
for this play. It is not yet complete, but-we will get it
in time. But becauuo in our theatre the idea is one of
collaboration it is necessary for no to spend very much time
together Working on the play.
Terence and Miriam are thying to find the settings,
which will be as light as the play 13y new as movable as the
play is. We are trying to solve this problem. Is it posui-
ble to build tho not so that each time we hill see the old
theatre and a rehonreel in this old theatre. Thin is one
pooeibility for the settings. Another poenibility is that
we are not showing the old theatre always, but we are showing
the theatre as it is and only in tho real theatre certain thingo
are moving. This has brought us great difficulty. When we
tried to use the illusion of another theatre it became very
heavy and it killed the play. now we are trying to solve
this problem.
EDhe PossesseZl}
The tank with Mr. Shdanoff'o playAis more difficult.

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

 
13.35;
M. Chokhov - July 11. 1938
Our idea was always to get a stormy performance - the form
‘ filled to the bursting like our style. But the tremendous
amount of words spoils the whole thing. although to cut them
out with the pencil is irﬁpoeeiblo - something is lost and
instead of beboming more condensed and serious. the play
becomes amp-till; This has presented alrig problem when the
author and director collaborate. We are trying now to find
the right wording, and the necessary number of wordu‘. and the
order in which they must be epekon from the stages and that
presents a difficult but very interesting task, and one that
cannot be done atomic}
Mr. shdcmeff has tried to tau-compose the thoughts
so that they are all there. but with the minimum of wordo.
We have not yet reached the right point. but it is already
something quite different ﬁ-em this point of View} We will
change this version again and again;
We have found something in the structure of the
play which in that the play begins from underneath. Verkhovmx-
ski appears from somewhere, from darkness. abroad. unknown.‘
oto.. and he develops his activities more and more. Ono
climax in already ulcer - a very big part of the play - from
the meeting to the end of the revolution. This in a big eli-
mex - this power of Verkhoveneki who came from somewhere and
at the meeting he opens himself entirely - then revolution
and downfall. This is one cum: which in quite obvious for
today. We have decided that this moment of. the meeting and

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

 
:7'v\
m. Chekhov July 11, 1938
the revolution can be elaborated in more detail and many more
words can be there. wimh 1035 words in the beginning. Than
the line divides — Stdvrogin goes upunxds to the point which
we call Father Daniel, and Verkhovenski goon down; from the
point 5f the meeﬁing and the revolution. From this point
there are two lines. Mr. Debujinsky tries each day to find
how to incorporate in the settings this big gesture which
divides, and which gestures are in each scene. because each
scene has ita gesture. We have found some ideas.2 .
I must as: youﬂgain to keep the secret or our play.
It is so easy to get the idea of Deetoyevnky and tree in a
few months we will see another performance and our whole work
will be useless. There will be no commercial or artistic
success if the play is performed by others. It is so easy to
speak abnut it casually.