

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

{in
michncl Chekhov
January 29, 19u2
Onon Lecture to Actora Held at
"ActornﬁService," New York
Given by Michael Chekhov
THE ACTOR OF THE FUTURE
CONCENTRATION
ATMOSPHERE
IMAGINATION- THE IMAGE
THE INNER LIFE OF THE CIMRACTER
THE INDEPENDENT EXISTENCE OF THE CHARACTER
THE INCORPORATION OF THE CHARACTER
THE IWAGIHARY BODY OF THE CHARACTER
UNDERSTANDING THE CHARACTER'S PSYCHOLOGY
DEVELOPING THE ACTOR'S BODY
MOLDING - FLOHING ~ FLYING - RADIATING
MOVEMENT
STACCATO AND LEGATO MOVEMENTS
THE CENTER
Michelangelo
Hamlet
King Lear
Don Quixote
Greek. the clown
THE ACTOR OF THE FUTURE:
All of He knew what the theatre in now. we know what
the theatre was, and we can imagine what the theatre would or
should be.
The present audience. while buying the tickot for
the performance, wants to know who in the author. then they
want to know the names of the stern. and maybe who the director
in and that is all.
Thor; are no actors in the theatre - stars
but not actors.
They are stars - lonely beings.
They do not
need our help - the actor's help.
They do not want to be als-
turbed. and they have the right not to be because they are
not actors because the audience does not yet know that the
actor is the theatre.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

:13. Chekhov.
January 29. 19%
Actors no a group. as an ensemble. that is the theatre.
and so it will be.
it seems to me.
in the future that the
theatre will consist of actorm first of all. among them more.
or less gifted ones. and then the author and the director.
If
we havecertain visions about the future theatre, and I think
we have. then it seems to me that we have to visualize. first
of all. what tho actor will be like.
Let us imagine for a moment what the actor of the
future can be.
I think the future actor hno to have different
euro, different eyes. different heart. different will, differ-
ent feelings, different everything.
Lot ue ask how the future
actor would receive impressiono around him.
He will one things
beyond usual things. and he will perform those things - not
the obviouo ones. not the surface, but something which he can
see above and beyond the surface.
CONCENTRATION:
A very simple thing can serve him - to have such a
high degree that thingo will reveal before him their secret,
hidden sides.
or course. we know that everyone of no has, by
nature. the ability to concentrate: otherwise, we could not
cross the otreet, or have a meal.
or any how do you do.
But
this is not enough for our imaginary future actor.
He nuot
have such an ability of concentration that he will penetrate
into things.deopor than we can imagine at the moment.
Let us see how it can be done.
Let us concentrate


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

us'\;
.0:
in. Chekhov
‘
January 29. 1932
on these three letters [on the blackboam].
First we must
see them with our eyes
-— if it was a sound, we must hear it.
Then after we have seen clearly those thraa lottem and can
also describe than to ourselves. we have to dostho next thing.
which is 1:6 move inwardly.
I mean psychologically. as it
vex-a. to move tmvards these three letters Just £15 we can move
towards a person we love. for instance.
What are we doing
when we am in lava?
We are moving towards this: person con-
‘zinuously day's and nights.
This 10 the same in the act of
real concantmtion. we have to move toxmrdu the thing we wish
to penetrate with our concentration.
Let us move towards
these three utters.
when wo have done this. we must do tho next thing.
which is to embrace these three letters with our invisible
hands. which we can very easily imagine.
We are moving towards
the thing we am). we am embracing it and are holding it
that in our amz and handu.
When we try to do this, we
will sac that the moment will come when the thingvz‘oegina to
be in us. within us. and um arc around the thing.
'«ﬂmn we
keep nut attention on the thing in this: way. if we are tminod
sufficiently. than wn discover certain hidden qualities in the
thing; 3-1: are concentrating; on.
For ins‘tancc. if it in a table
on which you are concmtmting. try to mow: towards it.
embrac-
ing it. the moment will come when. although you arc not actually
touching it. you will feel how heavy it is. what material it
16 made of, what uhape it is - not bacaunc you see it but


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

5X25
M. Chekhov
January 29.
19h2
because it in in you. and you become somehow "clairvoyant”
to this thing.
If such an ability of concentration is developed.
then the whole world around this future actor will seem to
be an absolutely different one.
People around us will tell
us things which are worthwhile to perform on the stage.
To
merge with those things,
to add to them our own heart and
will and to send them out to the audience.
Then our charao-
torn on the stage will become living boingu and not sehomco
or ﬂood.
empty bodies.
such as we very often sec on the stage -
corpooo are walking in make-up. undidroosed in strange coo-
tumou.
The future actor.
it noon: to me. 5111 be able not
only to live on the stage himself. but to give to his charac-
ters and,
therefore. both of them.
the character an& the actor.
will become one being with increased life. with life which is
much stronger than our usual lives are.
Then bocnuso of this
highly developed ability to concentrate. the life in us will
become stronger. more powerful. and the heart will become
bigger.
ATFOSPHEREI
Another thing the future actor will have in the
ability to live in tho atmoapheres around him,
in such a way
that the atmoephore will become stronger in the presence of
this new actor. and the actor himself will bacome inspired
because of the atmosphere which surrounds him.
of course.


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

K. Chekhov
January 29,
1942
everyone of us known only too well what it means to experi—
ence different atmosphereu while walking along the streets.
If we are more or 1053 attentive to thone atmospheres. we
will 500 how one street hao one utmouphoro. another a dif-
ferent one. one heuue has one atmosphere while another has a
different one, and on on.
But the difficulty with no is that
we do not pay enough attention to these atmospheres.
We paso
through them without being affected by them.
There in a technique for catching ntnouphores. for
nproading then on the stage. and for using thom.
Let me tell
you in a few words how it can be done.
It in u very ninplo
technique.
can we imagine thin room filled with smoke?
We
can.
can we imagine this room filled with fragrance?
We can.
with a strong light?
We can.
We can imagine nround'un in
this room anything we like.
Try to imagine that the air is
filled with aorrew.
Don't g9 anything, but imagine objectively
the air filled with narrow;
Since we have changed this actual
air and space around uo in thin imaginary way. and since we
opened ourselves towardn this new air and Space; it begins to
influence us immediately and inevitablyf
We got some inspira-
tion from thin imaginary earrow spread around us.
If we try to do the opposite thing. which actors so
often do and which seems wrong to me because it is more diffi-
cult less successful, if We try to hgegzuLcozry. to squeeze
it out of our feelings.
I don't think we will find iﬁeasy to


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

-J
"I
’h
M. Chekhov
January 29. 1942
do.
Try to become oorry.‘
We often don't know where to start
inwardly.
Of course, there are always clichio — I can change
ny voice,
take a deep breath and lean on something. but it in
a 110.
We may become sorry because of the ten or twenty
clicV
Ms we have been able to accumulate, but it will be acci-
dental.
To have a technique we must leave our feelings in
peace - not touch them and squeeze and force them out of
ouruelves.
Once again.
imagine the air around you filled with
sorrow. and imagine it strongly enough and become freo‘inwurdly
and outwardly - all these things are very easy to goti- and
you will become sorry.
Not tooporoonul because that is wrong.
Personal sorrow. or joy, or fear on the stage are not very
interesting thingo-
If one 10 sorry as a person — you can doi
it in the theatre very often and in life always - if one in
sorry endtrieo to ohon hio sorrow to another person. the other
person reacto noggtivoly and wants to get rid of this uorry
person because it is too personal and too true.
In art our feelings havo to he somehow obJectivo and
not aboolutoly personal.
When we imagine the air around us
filled with different foellnao, we remain objective.
when
we get inspiration from this imaginary oorrow around uo We are
otill free becauoo the actor is not sorry. quite thocppooite.
he enjoys this state of being sorry because he lo performing
in tho best sense, he is enjoying it and looking upon it


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29.
19h2
objectively.
No is not sitting in this sorrow and is not a
slave to it.
ﬂu is mastering thin sorrow.
Since we have got a certain fooling because of this
atmosphere, immediately we can act and speak and do everything
ivhharmony with this atmosphcto.
If the atmosphere in that
of fear - I have filled the air with fear — I have to find a
certain manner to move in order to be in harmony with this
fear, and that-in all I have to do.
To be in harmony. but
not to become afraid.
I think the future actor will mister
atmospheres. and. thoroforo. will never become tho character
bocauso that is already a mental illnooo.
0f couroo, we often
say.
'I was Othello tonight." but that in a lie becauoe if it
were true.
I would sit with incano people.
I must be a froc
person. enjoying my cruntion of Othelloé
I have given this
imaginary Othello my voioo. my body, my everything. and I
manage, govern. and direct my Othello, how and what do Ecol
without forcing my foolingo.
Ix'iAGIHA'I‘IDN - THE IMAGE:
Another thing the future actor con and must develop
is the ability to imagino to such an extent that his images
will bacomo for him just as ccncroto as re11 things around
him - again not in the sense that he will become insane.
No.
The imagination can be very otrong and still
I can be free
because it is my imagination but not mo.
The real imagination
is the following thing.
Let us say the actor wants to imagine


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

e‘IQL
m.
Chekhov
January 29,
19kg
a strange figure dressed in black.
The actor can almost
immediately see with hie mind's eye the figure in black. each
in his own way, and very often that in the limit.
We see
the figure in black. or we see Cordelia. Ophelia. Hamlet.
Horatio. or any character — we see them and that ie all.
But there is another etep which we must take.
Just
as we must move towards the thing we went to be concentrated-
on.
so we have inwardly to move towards this figure in black
and to move closer and closer, and to embrace it with our
invisible hands and then.
just as with the object on which we
have concentrated, We ehnll discover in thio figure in black,
its
characteg its inner lifea
its feelings, its thoughts.
its
will impulses. everything. And although thie figure in black
does not exist anywhere hut in our imagination.
it is a living
being from the moment when we really merge with it, and we
know who it is end what this figure in black will do and what
it has done, how it thinks. what if fools. and wiuhee.
This image awakens to the degree that we givo life
to it: whether it is our own creation or Shakespeare's Othello,
there is no difference.
when we give our life to the imaginary
figure. then we can be influenced by it Just as we are by
atmospheres and by everything around no in everyday life, if
we have the ability to penetrate with our highly developed
concentration into everything around us.
And that is what we
need.
As soon as we are influenced by our image, we are able


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

E. Chekhov
January 29.
1932
to act it.
We are able to give to this image our bodies.
our
voices, our emotional life - all are at the disposal of the
image.
no you remember Michelangolo's Moses in Rome?
Try
to imagino how Michelangelo was imagining this figure. than
you will got a clear picture of the tremendous poucr of the
imagination.
Ho could not shape such waves of hair and folds
on the shouldorn of the figure. ouch eyes and nouo ~ quito‘
obviously Michelangelo was inuido thin Noaoo beforq he started
to mold the figure.
I! no try to penetrate into such great
thingo as homes. for instance. we will learn how great the
imagination can be.
It in good also to imagine how ho was
imagining.
THE INNER LIFE OF THE CHARACTER!
Then we can do the following thing - we can take
King Lear on the heath crying "Blow, wind:...".
We can in:-
gine King Lear on the heath. and
so can oak him to act boforo
our mind's oyo. and while he in acting. we must go towards
him inwardly and embrace him while he in acting’and ho with
him until we ourselveo go? the spark of fire which Lear has
on tho heath.
Then we have a true imagination.
We must not
stop before we reach the threshold of the real imagination,
which is the penetration into the inner life of the character.
To see outwardly the figure of Lear moving there - if you are


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29, 19h2
a director. you will see it easily — but that is not enough;
to ﬂee thingo outwardly is easy but that in not yet the ima—
gination — tho real imagination starts when we begin to bocomo
“clairvoyant? when we begin to “one“ his feelings. his will,
his thoughts, hio everything.
THE INDEPEJDENT EXISTENCE OF THE CHARACTER:
Tho third otngo of imagination will be the following
one. and it will come of itself.
It will come as the rooult
of the two previous stugco - to sea outwardly and to non tho
innor life of the character.
The third stage is when the
choraotor cameo. and it is thoro.
You oco it with your open
oyco - not your phyoicol cyoo - you don't need to close your
oyoo and any.
"Don’t disturb mo.
I am imaginingQ"
No.
ovary-
thing in than absolutely no in ovcrydoy life.
You speak with
someone. or you read a book. and still Horatio or Lear is
there.
You study him. not as a madman. but absolutely in a
free and normal way, and still Horatio is there.
You see
him, and you look into him. you hear his voice. you one him
noting. you one him radiating feelings. will impulses. and
everything.
You sea the color of him skin; you see every-
thing about him.
Aftor such a visit you will feel a little tired
because this image lives your life. you give him the life.
But this tiredness is a good and sound one.
After tho char-
acter has left you. you will feel that you are able to act
I,


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

(\l
(‘r
m. Chekhov
January 29. 19oz
the character without ellchﬁo, without forcing yourself,
without oqueezing your feelings.
It becomes possible to do
no and that in the right thing because the ideal theatre of
the future. an I visualize
it.
in a very easy job. not in
the sense of today but an easy job and a very high standard
at the same time.
An easy job because if we are born actors.
we don't want to do anything but act, and if one does the
things he wants. they are alwnyu easy.
What we are lacklng'
lo the technique, not only tho bodily. physical technique.
but the psychological technique to enable us to see what we
want and as deeply as we need no that we can change psycholog-
ically the space around us without any epocln1.unp1caeant
effort.
THE INCORPORATION OF THE CHARACTER:
Having acquired such on imagination that the char-
acters begin to live around no. then the next stop in to adjust
to this character which has got the life from non to adjust
our real physical body to lto imaginary body.
or course.
Horatio in not like me. otherwise he would be like me in all
characters and all parts.
[So we need physical. bodily train-
ing on well. but there lo another means of adjusting the
character'e outer appearance to our physical body.
Imagine that we have developed our physical bodies
to such a degree that they are flexible enough.
Then we have
to’look upon our character and ask it to speak a sentence and


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

r;
M. Chekhov
January 29.
19h2
to move.
Let us take the "Blow, windo..." scene. for instance.
Rehearse the moment in your imagination as many times no you
like. until you become sntiufiod with it ~ you love your own
imaginary production. and it satisfieo you.
The next step is that youhhave to try to imitate
your image.
Very carefully.
step by step. try to move like
the character movoo. but don't take too long a scene.
Take
one moment. perhaps one word. and try to imitate it no leng'
no you feel that your body is able to serve the character.
just no you imagine it — not in general.
when is King Lear
in general?
We muot take the moment of "Blow. windo..." that
is all. and imagine it and incorporate it several times.
Then you will come to the moment when you feel it in pleasant
,to nerve your own imagination.
After you have chosen several memento of King Lear.—
and you should take otrong moments - then suddenly the moment
will come when you feel you don' t need to incorporate separate
momenta becauoe the character. being a living being, will be
doing everything absolutely truthfully and organically.
This
will be the ease of our imagination in developed - you will
feel
"I am ready."
Forhaps you h:vo done twenty or thirty
separate memento.
trying to incorporate them. and then you
have a different body all ready - ready for the whole part.
It in an interesting fact which shows us that conr.
sieuoly we can actually do very little. and we know only too


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29,
1942
well that the whole creative procesn takes place in our aub-
consciouo - thin has become commonplpoe
new. hut it is
still a fact.
We have only to send one message after another
to our aubconociouo and try to feed it.
These are like a
series of telegrams which we are sending to our subconscious.
The work will be finished by our subconscious.
When We feel
that we are ready, having done only twenty or thirty eoparate
memento. it means that our oubconecieuo being has prepared'
our body to ouch an extent that we con rehearse the whole
part.
THE IFAGINAR! BODY OF THE CHARACTER!
Then there in another mouno of adjusting our bodice
to our imaginary charactero.
Let uo imagine that we are
going to perform Don Quixote. who is a very tall. thin person.
Perhaps we are not no toll and thin an he is. but we are able
to make a psychological and phyoicnl "trick." if you will
excuse the use of this word.
There is Don Quixote. and here
we are.
Now let uo imagine that we have another body, which
in thin and tall.
We can imagine it just as easily as we
imagined the air filled with eorrow, or King Lear on the
heath.
We can imagine that we are much taller — not your
physical body. which you can do nothing about. but your 353—
Pinagy hody.
Hexvtry to move your imaginary arm and hand,
which is long and thin.
Do it several times.
when you can
do it coolly.
then you can put your physical hand into it as


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

E. Chekhov
January 29. 19“2
into a glove. and your hand will become another one.
Because
you are creating.
imagining. playing with this hand.
Pleasantly
playing with thin imaginary tall figure.
How would you walk
if you had an imaginary tall body?
Follow it, and you will
feel how differently your joints are moving because of this
imaginary body.
when you try to become toll only by means of
your phyolcal body. you will get into difficulties. and you
will be compelled to lie.
There are no physical meano to help you, but the
inaginnry body can do everything.
when we put thio imaginary
body on our physical body as a glove. than we can imitate and
follow this imaginary body.
First. we will feel that it is
a very pleasant thing. and'secondly. that it is art. and.
thirdly. we will know about tho gnychology of such a tall per-
son much more than if we were to try to otretch our physical
body as much no we can.
A fat man. for inutanco.
Again.
there are a few elichﬁo for thin. but they are lion.
But we
can ingino another body with a short neck. a big stomach,and
thick arms and hands.
Let this imaginary figure move. and
you will soc that everything becomes differont in your body
because it will be the uoyeholopy of a fat man and not our
own body forced to become fat.
UNDERSTANDING THE CHARACTER'S PSYCHOLOGY;
This "trick" with the imaginary body will lead us
to the ability ~ and here 1163 the trick — to know the psychology


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

;¢
(V;
E. Chekhov
January 29.
19h2
of tho person who ban this imaginary body.
If we try to
become fat physically, we will not know anything except that
we~ore tired and a little ashamed, but if we try to put our
phyolcal body into this imaginary one. we will know how this
fat person fools. thinku.
otc.
Nhon the fat person says. for
instanco.
”I will run and bring it," why deco it seem so
humorouo?
It in humorouo only becauoa we are able to peno—
trote into 333 imagination and into big idua of how he will
run.
.
This ability to know the poychology of a character
with a differcnﬁbody hhun our own is aluo one of the sources
for humor on tho utago.
The real humor comoa from being able
to walk along all thone psychological "corridoru' of the
other person.
The clown, for instance.
A good clown is
humorous becauoo no in walking "logically" along those corri-
dors of a person who. being ohot.
mayo "Thank you."
It is
paychologically truo. but if it boconcu a lie,
it is terrible.
Crock in a geniuo and known how to walk along these corridors.
How he throws the flowcra and forget: them. and then. after
many other tricks. ho is picking then up.
But one must be a
geniun llko Greek to be able to walk such poychologicnl cor-
ridoro. because it in "logically“ true what he does. although
it means impooolblo.
Juut tho same, each psychology. each character has
inwardly ito awn corridoro and ways, and if we try really to


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29. 19b2
experience the fat or thin body. then we immediately know the
psychology of the character.
We will not know the psychology
of the character and will even forget our own if we try to
force our own physical body to become thin. or fat. or stupid.
Then we hnyo no psychology. but only clichés and dead bodies.
DEVELOPING THE ACTOR'S BODY)
I am trying to tell you as many practical thingo no
I can. therefore.
I Jump from one thing to the other.
Certoin
physical exercised must be done on well because our bodies
are very hostile to no.
They want to have root and nothing
else.
In each muscle and joinﬁwe can feel that we are going
to full aeloep an seen no peeciblo.
It in our human unhappi-
nouu to have physical bodies which are sleepy and lazy.
We
have to stir them a little. and awoken them by mound of cer-
tain exercises which can develop the whole body.
The exercises
are very dimple. but it we do then continuously and patiently.
we will get great reeelte.
HOLDING - FLOWING - FLYING - RADIATING
idO‘lEiEli‘l'Z‘l
There are different kinda of movementu which we do
every day without paying'ettcntion to them, but in order to
exercise we must do them consciously.
For lnutanco.
let uo
choose a movement which our bodies do in everyday life -
moldinn movementst
Try to make a circle in a molding way -
as though you were molding the air with certain rooietnnco


===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29,
1942
which you have to overcome.
If you have done it in the right
way. you will have n fouling of increased power.
firot in the
limb which you nro moving, and then in the whole body.
At
the and you will have the improooion that you are younger and
stronger. and if you are an actor, you will want to not.
Then we can make another kind of movement - flowing
movemento.
How you look while you are moving muot not intorost
you at all;
Thooo axorclsoo oro onlyuaoful if no renombor'
this.
Try to make continuouo.rlowing movements so that nothing
will stop than.
of couroo. you will fool a desire to sleep.
but go on continuously.
You can use your own body in tho some
way - any movement will be right.
If thio flowing movement
in done right and long enough,
it will awoken in you the fool-
ing that you are psychologically getting wormor. that you wont
to radiate. to give your warmth to your audicnoo.
You will
want to act with your ﬂggg_.
When you arc doing molding
movements. you want to act with your gill. but in these flowing
movomontn you want to act with your heart.
The third kind of movomont is flying novcnento.
Flying psychologically - we don't havo to give tho improuoion
of a flying being - it io.important that we Egg; that we are
flying when we make thooo movemento.
After such flying move-
ments we will got the fooling that we are happy and guy.
If
we are really filled with foolingo of gniety. wu will get the
some desire to act anouto give our gay feelings to our audience.


===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29. 19oz
At the eamo time.
of eouroc. our body becomoo flexible in a
certain way» which actors nood.
A jugglcr who ueee his body
in everything he does will need other different exercises,
but for us. as actors, thoee are the meet important because
they awaken our muocloo. our whole body by meeno of the pay—
chology.
To be able to flyiin a psychological fact. to be
able to mold otrongly or to float in a psychological fact.
The last kind otnovemont in a radiatina movement.
., Spread or etrdﬁch your abn-and hand and radiate - juot radi-
ate without any hoeitation.
You will one how eaey it ie to
radiate in this way.
We can radiate without any movements.
tee.
Radioto no that you feel that you are covering space.
Radiato to the stars.
If the actor on the stage knows that
he radiates. the audience will believe it.
These four kinda of movement. molding. flowin 4
fl in
, end radiating are of ouch a nature that you will see.
if you exorcioo them. that they will awaken your body so that
it will be able to incorporate. to imitate your own imagina-
tion.
If we see King Lear running on the heath. and if our
body in awakened and in able to obey these four different
psychological movementor we can follow him.
And we will see
in him many more thinge because if the body in developed in
this way, the body will begin to think and understand things.
If ono'e body in flexible enough.
it becomes an organ for
understanding.
If Lear falle down on the around.
how he fallo


===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29. 19“?
in my imagination I know it by means of my own body. and my
body dooo tho some - even the impulse to do it is enough -
my body diocovoro the psychology of Lear.
our bodies become
our brains, able to hear. to see. to fool. to do everything.
when we have developed our bodies my means of these
exoreiooo, we can try to do the following thing.
We can read
the part which we have chosen for exorbioc - again let us
take King Lent - and we will hear and non thingo which our
body will permit no.
"Blow. winds, and crack your chcokol
rage!
ﬁlovl"
If you imagine this scene. you why see that hora
our body, as an organ of undotatanding which in penetrating
into the psychology, can see that Lear in at thio moment
filled with will.
Of course. mzny oxplnnutiono can be given for this -
more or logo psychological analyoio - why he in filled with
will at thin tine becauoo ho wants to got rid of...bocnuoo
he wants to booono...but that in not important.
How you can
it. that in our mﬂano of understanding it.
"You cataraotu and
hurricunnc." if you will follow your imagination, you will see
that hatocomeo like wotnr — flowing movemento — and you will
speak these words differently and will act them differently.
Of course,
it in mixen with will and other things.
too.
"You
oulphurouo and thought-executing fires." can be radiating
movements - with our bodies we are radiating.
"Oak-cleaving
thunderbolts.“ our body known - everywhere lightning.
Then


===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

.
~;';.
m. Chekhov
January 29.
1942
another moment comes. “And thou. all-Shaking thunder. smite
flat the thick rotundity o' the world!"
Again that in u
molding quality.
And 90, by the means of our developed bodice. we
will be able to see the character in our imagination in a
different way than we would be able to without our bodice.
Nhleh have become our brain.
STACCATO AND IEGA'J‘O ROVEMENTSI
There in another kind of movement which it,io good
to do.
Wwo extremeﬁyoasibilitics which the human body can
produce.
One in the sharpest possible gtggggtg - try to
sharply stretch out your arm and hand and iii it.
You must
be able to stop an if dead.
when wotry really to stop our
body completely. it begins to move in another way.
It in not
important to get thin physical ability. but eeycholosically
it is important that we heve thin nsnuranee that we are like
stone,
or no though dead.
It will awaken again certain things
in our body which will become more flexible. we will be able
to control it more than before. and. thirdly.
it in another
little "eye” which our body may have while imagining and
understanding what the cheructer is doing.
Our bodies are
eonntantly imitatin
our imavee. and by thin proeenu of imi-
tating we underbtand the inner life of the character.
The other kind of movement is quite the oppoeite -
legato. or flowing movement.
Here the psychology is different


===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

M.
Chekhov
January 29,
1942
because we are movinéwenntantly in all parts of our bodies
so that nothing is in a cutie state.
Dctwccn those two
poles are all the movements which we producc
in. everyday life.
but we don'hpay any attention to then and don't develop them.
thorofcro.‘ they are not strong enough in us to be able to
become an inner “eye.“
THE CENTER:
How we come back to the imaginary body.
that of Don
Quixote.
for inotzmco.
when our body has become flcxible
enough and is able to walk and to move being in thin imaginary
body, than there in another thing.
We can imagine horn in
the center of our chest an imaginary center.
This center in
tho thing upcn which our whole body. our physical body.
or the
imaginary body of the character .dopcnde.
jrlhon we are walking
in everyday life. we can imagine we are moving forward
because this imaginary center. which harmonizuo our whole
body. moven forward and we follow it.
’1‘th we can move with
more inner power and expressiveness because there in something
which kills in no the thing which We call "dragging our body,"
from wearineos or bad habits which we accept and submit to.
'r‘lo must not accept those things.
We nunt alwayo imagine that we have a perfect body.
and inwardly we ‘do have perfect bodies if we see then and that
is the main thing here with the center.
The center in the


===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29,
1942
ideal center of an Ideal body.
If the center movou in a.
certain way, then no matter how
I was born.
I have to move
beautifully. strongly, being sure that the center leads me
forward.
pr 1 follow the invitation of my center to sit
down. to got up. ate.
1 will be always more sound and will
have.
in time, a body which will be able to become another
kind of body because this body with the sound center is so
healthy,
so right, so beautiful. poychelogicclly speaking.
that is ie easy for one who has such a cantor to become such
a person.
Bocauno of this centerr and if the imaginary body
will give some suggoutionu.
This center can do everything and can inspire no in
every way.
Imagine that you are walking. being led by thio
center.
in the normal way.
Now imagine that this center is
displaced - immediately you have a different body and a air.
forcnt psychology.
Thin imaginary center having dropped down.
let no any, ouggeoto a psychological thing.
As you have
_
perhaps noticed. all these thinga which are so easy to do and
to imagino euteido of us,
influence uo strongly much core
strongly than~if we try to boccmo.
for instance. gay or sad.
By means of ouch imaginary things we just coax our feelings.
We awaken them. and they react on all those invitations.
They answer no gladly because they are not forced.
Now let
us place the center above our head.
Quite a different poycho-
logy and kind of movendnt.
The whole psychology will become


===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29. 19u2
another one.
The center can be a very small thing. here or
there.
Now we can put the center over our ehoulder, and it
becomes auspicious.
And so on.
This center in just the
esecnco of the thing. and it will help ue to find the character
much sooner.
Quentionn and Answers:
Quontiono
ﬂeet of the uooplo here are very interested in
iﬁbroving thenuelvca an actoru. and in getting n chance to he
each.
They want to week.
They want to lease a theatre for a
year. to be used an an experimental workehop.
Would you come
down once in a while and take over the work?
Question:
You eaid you would give your opinion of the theatre
of the future.
What do you imagine the ideal acting would be
in the future?
what would you like to see in the theatre of
the future?
What kind of acting?
How would you achieve this
theatre of the future?
gggggg (Michael Chekhov);
I have tried to touch upon this
problem. but I cannot expreee myself
-adequatély.
In a {éw
words I can say that the actor of the future must be a person
who will be able to act everything given to him - a very
naturalistic play. or a very high tragedy. or a clown. or
whatever it in. but the main thing will be Egg to net.
The
actor who willdevelop himself as I have tried to explain today,
will. first of all, discover himself as a human being with a


===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29. 15M
tremendous will, a very big heart and an imagination which
becomes almost real.
Then such an actor will be able to
answer the problems of today. of any time in which he lives.
He will be able to answer not only by means of a good play
or by the york of a clover author. but will answer these
questions himself, by opening himnelf to the point where all
politeneou and shame will be left behind.
If thethentre is
a oerieun thing. which it can and must be. then the actor
cannot appear on the stage without being able to Open every-
thing he has and show his individuality. his real heart. hie
real will. because there is nothing more interenting and
helpful and even frightening than to see u person as he
really in.
Not how they smile and say.
"How do you do?“
but how it in inoido.
Th0 theatre has arisen, no we know.
from deep sources.
from myoteries. and people who became actors were somehow
connected with no many myoteriouo things around them in tho
world and in their surroundings.
in other people.
in the compo—
sition of their lives.
of the events of history. of things
whieh those oneicnt people found ngnificant in the acnse that
they can a person. for inotunco. and they saw the destiny of
that person.
They could fool the tragic and happy life of the
person becauao they had insight for such things. and they didn't
know how to close themselves becnuue they were not egotistical.
If one in clooogy then he walkn through life absolutely


===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

(a
m. Chekhov
January 29. 19b;
egotistically. because he is only taking and not giving
anything.
0n the stage we have to give ourselves.
If one
acts Othellu. the actor must give himself completely.
This
kind of acting will. of course. bring new playwrights.
They
will not he so primitive.
no superficial.
A pereon't destiny.
unhappiness, happineﬁe. sine. religious feelings. everything
will be taken into consideration.
now imagine that we are no closed,
so unprepared to
meet people who will cemc from some occupied country. and they
will buy a tichet and sit in our theatre.
How do you think
they will feel?‘
can we perform before them the things we are
giving the public new?
We take a cigarette and smoke it and
lean on semething - such acting will net interest them.
They
have seen death.
They have soon their parents. their bridee,
their friends. their children dcetroycd - they don't know
where they are - they were bleeding. they are bleeding - they
are crying inwardly for help which no one can give them.
They
are going through such a life now that if I were acting on
the stage.
I do not think that I could appear before them.
I don't wolh with my friends with d bayennot — two faces are
there and suddenly one disappears - he in bleeding - it in an
experience in which years and years of life are included in
such a moment.
Don't you think that this is the answer to what kind
of play: we must expect from playwrights, and how we, as
‘1.


===== PDF PAGE 26 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29, 1942
actors must net.
We cannot face such people with a smile
and say,
"How do you do?"A
It in not possible.
They will
be ashamed, and we will be nshnmed.
There will ho a wall
between ua.
We must tear our henrtu a little, and may if I
am performing for you,
I must play with my heart. with my
wholo will.
I have to have another psychological technique -
I have to be able to become tremendously radiating and with
enormous pawur being able to mold things inside of no.
The actor of the future nuut be a person dlfrurcnt
from any other person becnuuc of the war3bocuuso he in going
to face people who are going through such a life. much a real
life.
such a school that they will have different cars. dif—
ferent eyes. different quontienu.
We will have to satisfy
than by recreating our nature und,firut of all. psychologic-
ally, if we are actors. we have to discover manna of expression
which will
[hanvoy our deepest thoughts and reclingu - our
hearts and ville].
Quostiono and Answcrun
Question:
You have trained a lot of actors.
what do you
think we lack moat?
Answer (Michael Chekhov):
Our abilities are not yet beyond
the threshold which makes an actor a real magician.
Everyone
must choose for himself things which he feels he needs because
while it is important to have a method and to take it


===== PDF PAGE 27 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29. 19h2
individually, not peduntienlly. each must choose certain
things for himself.
There are general things which have to
be exercised.
For instance, concentration.
It may be dull
work, but uithout it one cannot 50 on very for because with-
‘eut it one is somehow inwardly blind.
Then imagination is
just as important. and so are bodily oxereioea, properly done.
Queetionl
It scene to me that each of the four exercises
which is opocific...Whut I want to know is how to use that
particular emotion in a particular scene._ What otepn must I
take to use two levels of concentration?
55332; (Michael Chekhov):
our buuineeu as meters is to una—
ken our emotions without thinking of any yartioulor hart.
Simply to enrich our subconsciouenoes.
to be able to radiate.
that in enough because rhon you will. by means of your intu-
ition. find out how and what you have to use to awaken your
emotiene. or your will and everything.
We can interfere
consciously with our creative process only to a certain
degree — we should not go beyond certain limits,
otherwioo we
may become intellectually dry. and it will be somehow like a
ballast on our subconscious abilitiea.
By exercising. developing, and awakening things
inside of us in general, that is the first stop.
If you feel
you are able to radiate and do other such thinga,
if you are


===== PDF PAGE 28 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29. 19h2
really able. then they will come at the right time on their
own, and then it will be valuable.
To answer your question
directly. how can we call up certain feelings which we think
are good for this particular moment?
It requires more time.
Question.
By the use of the images you have demonstrated.
it
seems to me that one simple thing is being expressed at a
time.
But human behaviour has many variations going on at
the came time.
A human being can be laughing and crying at
.tho same time.
How can you combine these types of behaviour
by the use of these images?
A5239; (Michael Chekhov):
It is an important question which
I will answer in general.
There is a point in our Method
called "two levels" - it is very important because it makes
the real art.
when one is tall and short at the same time.
for instance.
There are means to develop ourselves as actors
so that we can act at once on two levels.
when our acting is
on one level.
it in so dull. Shakespeare or a modern playwright
will become dull immediately.
Our work must be on two. perhaps
even three or four levele.
Question: ,Have you found any theatre in any country which
approaches the ideal?
Answer (Michael Chekhov):
The ideal theatre requires a constant
group because if you are developed ideally but are all alone.


===== PDF PAGE 29 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29,
1942
and the other actora do not know anything about thooe ideal
things. you cannot do very much.
So it has to be a group.
and here in America we have tried to develop such a group.
Here I have had the first opportunity to start this work. and
I am véry grateful.1
Quentionu
In the Soviet they have this quality.
have they
not?
Answar (Michael Chekhov):
They have u very strange group
situation there.
In Russia the theatreo have permanent groups.
and there in the Method of Stanielnveky.
Stoniolaveky trained
hie actors according to his ﬁethed. and they became the group
they were when he was alive.
The firet generation of stonin-
lavsky actors were real masters of their art. with o very
high standard.
All the other theatres in Europe which I have
seen are like the theatres in America - the actors came together
accidentally. an it were. for this or that play.
Question:
Your group is the only one of its kind in this
country.
How can we arrive at such a state?
It in very dif-
ficult because no one cléo is promoting the group idea.
Answer (ﬁighael Chekhov):
I think about it in the following
way.
Everything dopendn on you.
People who went to be pieneoru
can do everything.
You can build a group and you can say we
are here. and we want to serve this new theatre and build a


===== PDF PAGE 30 =====

M. Chekhov
January 29. 1942
foundation.
You must be pionecrn who will foresee what the
theatre will be today and tomorrow and the day after and what
you can add to the cultural life of tomorrow.
Duonticnu- Unfortunately, people are faced with financial
problems, and they tend to leave the group when the chance to
make money comes.
Out of such groups a few oucceoaful uctoro
reach Drocdway, but the group dioo - the nucleus leaves it.
for financial reasons.
not many people want to stick together
for yearn.
Angggg (Hiehaol Chekhov):
It is a very difficult problem. and
from certain points of view we cannot solve it because if you
need money. you need it.
But still there is a little door
through which we can enter a small tech. and having very little
time but a strong will and the desire to do something which
may later on grow into something which we cannot even forooco.
gueotion:
Regarding this future actor.
If he has mastered
the technique of concentration and imagination and in con-
fronted by a script. would you say that he would be developed
in such a way that he would be able to give a perfect reading
on the first day?
Answer (Michael Chokhov)x
The manner in which the uctoro are
compelled to work now will not give us any help.
Thoroforc,
I any that we must find n small door and a small room and try


===== PDF PAGE 31 =====

m. Chekhov
January 29. 1942
to develop there certain things which are not allowed to be
done on Broadway.
We must work and be patient and not impose
Broadwaybs manner of work on our manner of work.
The first
step in to train ourselves as much no possible. and when the
nature of the actor is changed even a little. then I am sure
we will find a way to work simultaneously with the work being
done on Broadway. and perhupo after years we will become vic-
terioua.
But to persuade Broadway to change its manner of
'
rehoaroala and directing in impouniblo.
Questionu
Should we expect at ourselves the ability to get
up and give a perfect reading of any character?
Angggg (Michael Chekhov):
I think no because if those abili-
tioo are really there. and are fully developed. it will be a
great economy of time because you will have. no it were.
buttons you can press inside of you with a certain ease.
The
first reading will be at the name timc.tho first imagining,.
the first incorporating. the first characterization - it will
work together all at once.
Question:
Have you written a book?
Anewar; ‘1 am writing a book and have been for some time now.
I hope
to finish it soon.2
Question:
I am sure we are all very moved by people who have


===== PDF PAGE 32 =====

‘9 T18
m. Chekhov
January 29. 19h2
been through the war.
We now have an organization which
given shown to tho men in the army.
Don't you think it would
bat the governmnnt to sponsor a
national theatre where much an ideal theatre could be developed?
be wonderful if we could
Anawer (Michael Chekhov).
I think it is the rig
__.___.
___.______._l__
ht way, but
whether we would find a rouponsa 60 the idea on the part of
It muat ha something which
The only way would be to prepare a play
and then ask them
the gavornment now I cannot say,
will pcruundo them.
and show it.
to lot uu serve the éultural
life of the country in this way.
That seems to ho more
practical than to try to persuade them theoretically.
Quoution:
About critics.
I8 there anything that can he done
to take Bomu of their power away from them?
How can he buck
thin situation?
#aaéaaﬁ
