

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
Idiohnol Chekhov
December 15. 1939
CRITICISM 017 NEW STUDEI'I‘S' SCEES
The Miracle of St. Anthony;
Th0 Stronggz‘
MALE
mm
. Tho Termini, of tho Sh on
W
Hn_n___lot
.
GRITICISL? OF NEW STUDBKTS' SCENES:
Tho miracle
of. St. Anthony:
You have all made great
improvement. but you otill have to acquire many things.
You
did not got bridgeo and tmnoitionu in thin scene, uhd it \‘mo
very obvious at tho moment when the dead lady awoke — it was
very week at this momeniz. and none of tho points: of the
Method were uuffiéicnﬂy exprooecd or undeietood.
For instance.
the feeling of truth was not strong enough. radiation mu
weak, all the points were weak and bridges and tronsitieno
were not there muhh of the iimo.
If you will take all the
poinizo of the Method. youeill see next they were all weak.
The dirootor can bo'a. genius. but if the actoru
cannot Juotify the direction. then the actor cannot help.
The director nod the author are one thing. but without the
note:- there in no performance.
You must rely on the director
entirely. but you nuot‘nloo do ovoi-y’ching you can to help.
when the director is able to rely on'you. than the ideal
theatre will be born.
The stronzcrn
Karen has made great p'gogrooo. but
it is not enough.
Your main miotako was that everything


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
WEI-5':
, 3-7
m. Chekhov
December 15. 1939
should have been justified and mado as profound no possible.
It is clear wmt‘ you meant and what your director meant. but
it van not profound enough.
You moot sacrifice your personal-
lty for the part;
You. as it worn. duocrlbod what
5.1: should
be and he understood. but it is not enough - we should. one you
no a huxinn bomzjy Your “1 Am“ was not thorn - you am tell-
ing' on 1102:! tho thing could ho um} should be. but it was not
yot thorn on ﬁlm stage.
You rolled very much on your voice.
inutcad of oco‘rohing for things inside of yourself.
So you
I muot‘vork for the presence. tho "I An," oh the stage.
.
The some
‘19 truo of Halon in this sketch
pacuuoa
you” were tho 2:11am: ﬁgure docs not bite: - tho pauaoo nun
count. and they' can bif-{nuch more important than vordu.
In
this okotoh particulooly. tho allonco So much more important
than the wordo.
You one}: this olionco too superficially. no
if it were only a silence. but it in not: it in u long speech
full of orioo and laughtor'buz without sound.
You moot take
it ouch more profoundly and rely much moro'on tho imagination.
The home in true of M.
for..- inotanoo - tho iznginotion.
I don't want to coo your clovomoon on tho stucco, I want to
sec 103 moving and outing with your soul and heart.
Thora-
form. you moot imagine and again ru-imngino and again and
again, until your soul - tho imagination. tho fooling and tho
cool - you must imagine as long until your noturc‘ in inﬂamed.
The whole meaning of the imagination in to awaken nod inflame


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
2d. Chekhov
Docon‘bor 15. 1939
the inner life.
Your imagination hon not yet reached the
point which it muot roach - to awaken your inner life.
You
cannot order yourself to laugh‘or to hate. but you can com:
the laughter and hatred through the imagination.
It in the
.
my to awaken the feelings.
The Doluooy‘
You did not take the conditiono fully
which'woro given in the play - too pox-coho are going to die
in a few minutes - but I don't got this fooling.
Boouuoo
they are going to die, thoroforo. their hearts huvo opened.
without thin the whole ooono beconos bdnal'.
' Imaging these
days when tho soldiers in Europe are dying ~ cun you iringino
than dying in a. banal way?
You should have found tho psycho-
logy of o.potoon who in going to die immediately. and thin
would have hcipod you to overcome thin banality.
Yawnin-
tako was that you didn't oako mm of all those conditions.
You made your work too oaoy for youroolvoo.
Alwayo try to
find the most original. complicated. and unexpected things.
mthor than to sloop quiotly whoro evorything is banal.
The Poaaooaeds‘
Hora Barbara was half and half -
half true and prement. and uonotizeo you were Just tolling us
what you thought of friartha.
About Jim Es Stavrogin]:
would be more happy to son you when a big; psychological gesture,
starting with fiery expectation - soaking. touching. groping
into the other world and than through bridges and tranoitiono
come to the world of tho devilish influenooof Varkhovenoki.
-
nu


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
3%? 52
013..) ;'
LT. Chekhov
December 15. 1939
It was too weak.
Either it was your. imagination which was
too weak. or you noro too timid.
It won too even.
You had
the opportunity to chew two concretely extreme worlds - that
of the brain and tho evil brain. and that of the other world.
tho fairy ma norm.
Thn Tuning of the Shrew. Halon. if you want to
develop youmolf on an ootrcoo.
I would uugaoat that you do
not drop 'chio part.
You have not yet déocoverod the thing or
broken the barrier-n Ethic): hold you.‘
If you could szgng througn._mwu
R couid lead'you to tho fooiinga for this scone.
T5! to go
on with it, and try to find in yourself this tremendous fire
\
and tronsndo‘un opening ability to send out.
You will meet
zany difficultion. but if you wont to develop yourself. work
unon it'ovory day.
Your scheme was without bridges and utmo—
ltiono.
You nuot ﬁlm! than and develop ﬁhon otrongiy. and
the means of expression must be strong and violent.
Mthout
thin kind of experiment I cannot tell you anything more a’onut
H2.
.
_
In Karen'a interpretation of the Shrew; one showed
curtain dovolupnont. but am: did not have the feeling of style.
it damn not no in the text or tho mine on ocbno. but purely
in the psychology or the actor.
The scene is so short that
the beginning and/Che end must' be very clear.
Hon-v \‘livou of ”indoor:
Do’yna. was hotter because
she tried tqé‘ﬂnd‘hor my into the scene in a very right way.


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
nrf‘Pi
1.1. Chekhov
December 15. 1939
in the sense of the situation and the plot and everything.
It was night.
But there are certain things in you which
dieturb you.
There are none thinge unon which yon rely. and
there are some things which you ovorljji‘goh in youreelf. 'Thie
self-undemmnding on your part to hung. you think certain
' things are very expressive. one they are not. while others
are and you don‘t know it.
‘ M33!
Younnietmco wee‘juot the same £18 him
Me.
You did-net imagine this trencndeue .tumoil in the
court and hen Hamlet rune through thocourtiern and how he
hates: the king.
Ifyou ma reelieed all those thinge. you
would n04: be able to bone calm.
In Hamlet there in n revolu-
tion.
without this in become too 1071. too commonplace.
You 011011 the ability to dev010p yourselves, and
this in no important. even‘ more important than whether you
are very talented or not.
It is the first step to the future
theatre.
There are talented people in the world. but whether
they will create a new theatre or not in the question.
But
if people have the desire for the ﬁxture theatre. then thoee
are the pieneere with when I want “to work.
If you are trying
to get the method. it in much more important 1:0 me than if you
are geniuaee.
But you lack imginntionl
Your inaginntione are
not yet strong enough to inflame or inspire you.
Unthl fleu
get this imagination you will have no lever which can release


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
m. cnem'mv
December 15. 1939
your fire.
You must go through tremendous work so‘ that
8.61110-
timo your imagination will be nﬁéngor than real life. than
‘
you will know what 5:: mcanu' to be blended by your imagination.
when you can ago your character with such strong and clear
feelings that you cannot get aww from it. than you \1111 two
What 'thq inagihation in and what it ﬁrm give you. and you will
one that nothing can agbuﬂtuto for tho creﬁtivo magmation.
Murcia-m
,
Imagine uonothing and whim it in rcgdy dbbcard it.
and than ro-innginn the thing much new complicated. much morn
profomd-
Try another one. Through thin fight uh
‘ you uuut
until you have found that the second. 11-1150 1:: hotter
than the fix-at. you (13.11 dew/0109 this muscle.
13011th gun'-
tont with the figst image. you must be able to gay‘hof to the
firut. second. on; third, 'and by this torture ylvou will bocoma
sure that you can imagine.
This in our Method.
