

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
October 14.
1937
T! E PAUSE
Ii-PROVISATIOH
CHARACTLRIZATIOH
CENTER
The Peace Festival (Hauptuax-n)
Stanislavsbb]
THE PAUSEx
New Students:
When I producod Hamlet in Russia,
I asked the actor
to speak the soliloquy as if it were a pansc. and it was the
most beautiful thing - most convincing.1 When the actor lost
this fine psychology it became just an intellectual thing.
It is a great thing not only to be able to Justify a pause,
but to not and speak as if it is a pause.
The pause is the
strongest moment of radiation.
because when we movq half of
our radiation is incorporated into the movement, but the trick
of speaking only as radiation,
this is a very fine thing.
IHPROVISATIONI
01d Students:
Let us improvise on the ability to develop the gauze.
The scene is based on Hauptmanfs Feast of Peaeo [hestlval of
Egggéj.
It takes place in a Scandinavian country - it is win—
ter - Christmas Eve.
The house has three floors.
On the ground
floor we see people sitting around the Christmas tree; quite a
banal atmosphere - banal furniture,
etc.. Cold and windy out-
side; windows are frozen and it is not possible to look through
them.
The group consists of an old mother and her two sons,
an old lady friend of the mother's and her daughter.
The daugh—


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

H. Chekhov
October 1M,
1937
ter is the bride of one of the sons;
she and her mother and
husband occupy the second floor of the house.
On the third
floor there lives an old servant. alone.
There are many roomsl
one of the rooms is the room of the master of the house. who is:
no longer there.
It looks very strange and gives the impres-
sion that somebody has recently left the room.
Everything lies
about so that it gives the impression that the person is there,
but when we look attentively, we see that there is so much dust
that the person must have left the place very long ago. and
nobody has touched anything since:
it is quite living and quite
dead at the same time.
The father of the household was a very strange person -
a genius. but with so many gifts and possibilitee that nothing
was developed, and he could do nothing in his whole life because
he has always done this and that.
Everything enticed him, but
he was never a specialist in anything.
Without any technique.
without any profession or skilfulness. his whole life he spent
creating something as half-philosopher.
half—poet, half-inventor.
At times he was an excellent father of the family. and
at other times he would be strange and rude - he had no balance.
It was very difficult for his family to live with him. and then
something happened between the two sone..
They had always been
antagonistic towards one another, but on this particular occa-
sion one of them struck the other.
The father left the house
and disappeared. and from that time on they had not heard from


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

M. Chekhov
October 1b. 193?
him.
During the two years they had grown accustomed to his
being away.
One of the sons\bccame betrothed, and brought his
bride to live there.
The old servant was a very strange old man who was
like a dog to the fatherp ho was absolutely dependent on the
father: they were very closely bound.
After the father left
the house something happened to the old scrtant; he almost went
mad. like a dog.
It is Christmas Eve. they are sitting around the tree,
very banal. very ordinary people.
The curtain goes up on an in-
significant pause.
At the same time they hear a knock at the
window:
they hear a knock and they realize that it is the father
outside.
Out of this grows a very long pause. which continues
up to the moment when the father actually enters the door, which
meant he had to go around the house and the garden before he en—
tered.
The exorcise is based on those two pauses.
If you are
able to speak in the pause, then do so. but if you are able to
do the whole sketch without any words it will be better. more
artistic.
Try to find such a psychology that you don't need
words.
Criticism:
It was not original enough, although the pause was
held very well.
Your psychology was not original enough.
After
Paul's entrance as the father it was more interesting.
Don't


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

M. Chekhov
October 1“,
1937
make artificial situations;
if you don't get the inspiration
let it be simple - that is much better than to lie and make
artificial things.
How repeat the scene and underline two
things:
the first pause is out or the action which has hap-
pened before the curtain goes up. and the second pause is out
of the knocking itself.
Criticism:
It was much better.
For instance. when watching
Beatrice in the scene I felt I knew her whole life.
This is
real artistic work. not to have to explain everything in gen-
eral in the real artistic sense.
On the other hand Paula did
some pantomime with her mother - it would have been better to
act as‘if you did not need the words. not because you could
not speak, but Because you wanted to give a Sign without words.
In this case it was pantomime to illustrate the words,
but you
could have said the some words if you had wanted to.
Neither
does it mean that you must speak in a whisper - the pause can
be a very long ono in which you may be getting angry, you can
shout and yet not break the pause if you have the psychology
of the pause.
What is always had is the use of pantomime.
To improve the scene there can be added objectives,
justification,
feeling of truth. atmosphere,
etc.. all the
means we have at our disposal can he added. and then the in-
dividual psychology will blossom.
They were all too timid -
they can be more free within the pause which they had created.


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

m. Chekhov
October in.
1937
I do not want to repeat the same improvisation too often.
I
\
.
would rather give you other moments in the plays. but let us
do it once more.
Criticism:
It was not too strong, because your actor's psycho-
logy is not yet awakened.
It is very important for the actor
to have his psychology awakened.
If ho gets some impression
from outside. and if he has developed his psychology. he has
many. many ways in which to react.
ThiGLis necessary for the
actor. and it comes with time and with experience.
Each time
you did the scone it was bettef’ﬁnd better.
As actors you must
be absolutely attentive to all things which will arise inside
you as well as around you.
It is important to pay attention
to both the inner and tho outor world.
Sometimes the pause was
weak.
With the first cast today there seemed to be many dia-
logues without words, but this time it was not so full of "as
if" words.
At moments it was full of inaudible words, and at
times there was a subconscious repetition of the first scene.
i2
lst Pause;
r"’
2nd Pause
kn ck
We must compare what we are now doing — such fine
things we are trying to doi-iby remembering the moment during
the Golden Steed. at the very beginning of our work together,


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

H. Chekhov
October in. 1937
when you were asked to laugh — how very rough and rude it was!
Lot us take another scene from tho sumo Hauptmann
story:
the father has come into the house and has been re-
ceived back by the family.
Ho is almost mad. and gradually he
has brought great unhappiness into the house because he is old.
and strange. and nervous, and despotic.
There are more scan-
dals with the some, and the son and his bride are disturbed -
everyone is unhappy.
After a very rude scene of quarreling -
a very great scandal - the father has gone to his room where
he is very ill and he takes drugs.
The son packs his things
to go away with his bride.
The house is disordered.
It seems
that the father is going to die.
The family wants him to die;
they have begun to hate him but they are not able to confess
this, and therefore they do not speak about anything.
It is late at night.
The unhappy family is waiting
for something — the death of the father.
This is the pause we
will perform.
After a long time the old servant appears in
tears and with hate - everyone knows that the father is dead.
The first pause is the result of tho troubled quarroling. and
when the servant enters with his distorted face, then begins
something new out of this pause - relief.
Criticism:
The moment of the changing of the pause — the moment
of the servant's entrance — can be heightened more,
so that it


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

M. Chekhov
October 1k.
193?
is better theatre in the good sense.
It must he a more crucial
moment.
INNER ACTIgNnust tell you that it makes me very happy to see
actor's souls in you — to be able to do something from inside
when almost nothing is given - to find the ways out of your own
activity,
out of your own creative spirit, that means something!
Stanislavolw tried many means to Explain to us as ac-
tors what the inner action means - and this is it.
This is the
beginning of real inner action, when really nothing has happened
for our eyes except some movements. and absolutely nothing for
our cars. but it was inner action.
Stanislavsky came to the
idea of his method because he liked so much this inner action,
and he had a very fine feeling for these inner events.
so he
created these objectives and other things to call up the inner
action when it is not necessary to do anything, and the audi-
enee will be fascinated as a result of it.
ILPROVISATIOHI
0n the basis of characters:
a very conic.
light-
hearted theme.
A young graduate student has nassed his exam—
ination and is very happy.
He has come home at 5 o'clock in
the afternoon: he is full of energy and activity, but he does
not know what to do because everything is finished.
Imagine
that he has received a letter and he finds out that it is from
a fifteen year old girl. who has decided that he loves her;


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

M. Chekhov
October 1h.
1937
she asks him to come into the garden at eight o'clock when her
grandmother will be sleepinQ. and her mother will be away:
she
will he alone and will meet him there. He has no watch so he
must rely on his feeling of time.
He decides to drink a little
hour.
He begins to drink and he becomes so drunk that he cannot
see.
It is hot and everything is vary-stupid and he is in
a tragic mood, and then he remembers that it is eight o'clock
and he has to do something, but he is not sure what.
He takes
his hat and goes half—consciously to the garden where the girl
meets him.
He is not able to understand the situation - he is
absolutely out of control.
Ho sees her and then 10505 her. and
then sees her again.
Ho has no idea of what has happened, but
he wants to get rid of his tragic mood.
During the first part of the sketch the girl thinks
that he is performing a drunk man and she thinks how talented
he is.
The performance was so beautiful and so long.
Gradu-
ally she begins to understand that it is something too long.
then she is unhappy - he falls asleep and her heart is broken.
CENTER!
In the style of vaudeville and on the ground of char—
acters.
His center is walking around him everywhere - he is
chasing his center.
Her center is a yard or two before her -
she is streaming, chasing her center which 15 always before her,
quite light and sparking.
her center gets nearer and nearer to


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

M. Chekhov
October 1’4,
1937
her when the tragedy begins, and then it goes quite deep.
and
finally she drags it behind her.
We will use this drunk bus-
iness but it must be absolutely aesthetic — performing being
absolutely dznnk, but aesthetically.
Exercise the playing with
the center as an exercise for the chAracters.
Criticism:
It was absolutely un-naturalistic — a drunk man would
never do such things, but yet Terence has done then and convinced
us that he was drunk.
Catherine has made a mistake because she
has used things which are too near to cliches.
You can use more
play with the center which you are chasing.
It would make you
free from these ordinary things.
The dropping center was better
because it was more your characterization.
Such things as slap-
ping Terenee's backside are right;
if you have such impulses
you must do them. even if they are rude.
You can perhaps find
more variety in your actions - you would find this in rehearsing.
In the first stage he is terribly afraid of her because
he does not see her, but he hears her voice.
In the second stage
he explains to this being who is near him that he has got a let—
ter from a very stupid girl.
This is the first moment when she
guesses that something is wrong.
Then he recognizes her and
tries to save the situation.
He remembers that she has made a
mista:e in spelling in the letter and he tries to teach her.
