

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
 
3‘?
-
4, {as
Michael Chekhov
- Soptom‘nﬁ‘p. 1939
THE POSSESSED by DOSTOYEVSKY
The hietorical‘bdckgrommi and pane of
tho'idoau underlying the play an described by
Eugene Sarnoff.
'
(Mr. Senor: said he would endeavor to outline
something'ef Itho Rdvoluticnnry ‘iﬁovoucnt in Russia in rela-
tien t6 £th Po‘hueeueddi
The Rusai'an Revolutionary movement originated in
the French Revolution at the and of the eighteenth comm.
The rEVelutlonury ideas which {were flourishing'm France.
elm-:13; penetrated all over Europe. and finally reached ‘Rueum.
WW4 .r.
”Hubert: tho fig-pt renolueionarlon wofe members of the Inflate-
cracy and the meet highly educated people of the time.
_
Catherine. the Great carried one zany liberal idem: as tho
roeultnf'her intense correspondencewith tam; French liberal
thinkers such an Veltul’rc‘.
.Her immediate entourage adopted
some of the new menu and those idcaa' finally sproud_through-
out the educated ciréloo 9f Rueeiu.
The £5.er outburet-of revolution in Russia happened
about thirty—five yaar'ix' after the Frauen Revolution among
members of the very nelcctilImporlal Guard. who mntcd to
ameliorate the eituntion of the peasants nae middle classes.
Two illegal soéictiee were formed among the newborn of the
Imperial Guard. one in the north and the other in the South,
quite independently.
A1: that time the cam.- Aluxander I died - ho had


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
“liberal movements and one againot it both by nature and edu-
hS. Chekhov
September.
1939
been rather liberal at the beginning of hit; reign and had
wanted to give some freedom to the’govemnent. but under the
influence of rcuctienezfy governors. he changed his mind end
regardless of the advico‘ofu hie. more brilliant nideu.
he'
decided not to give the Constitution to the {mansion people.
when he died. hie brother. Micheline i. beatnik} Gear.
Nieholuu had "been brought up in cm entirely diff—
erent atmosphere from his brother uhe wee the favorite grand—~
ehild of Catherine the Great -outside the. Court in--purely
military circles.
He hadnot the alightoa idea of the new
cation.
During mi: reign the ﬁle oocietieu tee): thin oppor—
tunity to etert a. very 5:311 revolutionory moveixent.
They
I
decided the time had come to go before the Cam: and not: for
o Conetitutien for the Runeien people.
’ They trought their
regimento ‘and preeented their demands to the Gear 102- freedom
and for liberation of the aorta;
This me easily put dmm by
the military fox-coo of Nicheln‘o I. and their loedp‘re were
condemned to hard labor or executed.
I
lI‘he whole movement was suppressed“ but it was
brewing among the middle classed and the yeenééer people and
students of the universities and gyenueiune._' After a reac-
tionary period of. twenty or thiz‘sﬁy yearn. therevolutiennry
movement Btdrted to show itself again. eepecinlly among the
dutcllectual classes: and men of the liberal prefeuuiena.


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

ei8i
M. Chekhov
September.
1939
Those who adopted the new creed were pure idealiete
'7 they
did not putteue any personal tie in trying to spread their ideas:
among the lower cineeee becnuee they believed they were the
advance guard brhgﬁg their idcae which would live after
then and which would bring freedom and better ideas of living
for the 150 million people of Rueeie.
of when 80 percent were
completely illiterate.
.
Rueoiawen u pucoly agricultural country. and,
therefore.
the percentage of the proletariat was very small.
M: the same time asimilar scientific approach. to liberal
idene wee being made in Gummy and in England and 11 sei-
cntific doctrine er Socialism was hiring worlged em. particw
larly in the writings of Keel Liam} who win a philosopher and
idealist but a very impractical can.
Hie followero tried to
improve hie ideee and to adapt them to local condition-.1.
In Russia. Karl {Lu-x“ e. ideas were divided into two
groupe - pure Bdeiul Democrats who folloﬂod hie entirely. and
Social Revolutioniete
-» two large bodice of idealiete whe
 
tried to carry on his ideas and apply than 1:0 the life of
mmhthe time.
The Social Dceocmte were a kind of abstract
“m
thinkers who tried to dioregerd the actual and specific con-
ditiene which exieted in Rueoid and which were quite differ—
cm: to cenditiono existing-in other countries.
In Germany.
for instance. over fifty percent of the lower classes ware
.
pure proletariat. forty percent agricultural. and. ten percent


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
ﬂu.
M. Chekhov
September. 1939
"white collar" workore.
‘
Therefore. the ideazev of Karl Liam. hie purely
scientiﬂe approach to the problem. were not accepted by the
..large maﬁerity of Ruzeiun Socialiete‘linﬂﬁheir puie mm. but“,
they were chingcd in accordance writh'iriueeim needs.
For
instance. the basin of the Revolution in Mac. Germany,
and America was the peelemriut.
a; clean which me interested
V1n_noth1n‘g but ltd own well-being.
In Ruuuio.‘ theii'qjority of
the people were pennants or inmate and strictly'mdiﬂdtml-
1:11:10. with their mm property; their arm houses.and they
did not believe if: communal sharing.
This phase of the Rueuiun life tine takcri by the
Reenien Roveldtionﬁets'hho said that Rusuin'n Vfreedeu could
be ‘gained‘enly if the peasant; became the meet'ero 'of the
earth and everything which was produced by the earth.
They
amid that femur-ice. ehogq. and Eli other inetitutione which
«Mmectdgieted 1n the cities meet net be the min basic of Rueeiunw“
nm but must be eecendeme
Therefere. they based all their
 
revolutionary neveeent on the peasant. anan individual, as
a preprioter‘
They argued that if a man could wo'rk twenty
'
he could have them. but the van who had a hundred
”acres mitt rented thorn )3th bedestroyedu
“a..-
The Social Revolutioninta went to the rural pbpeam
tier: and explained their \‘trehgn 119 them. while the‘Seciel
.
Democrats went to the cities and facteriee and did the same


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
33.8 E,
n. Chekhov
September. 1939
thing.
Theywire. of course. persecuted and exiled. but the
Bevelutleninte some stronger and stronger and decided. to
avenge their comrades by fighting the gevernnent with tholr
emmlueepen by force and terrorism.
They argued that if they
terrorized the menbero lo: the czar'e government. 2hey would
not only be more lenient. but no one would be willing to
accept the poet of a govemor beceuee they would be rleklng
their llvee m“; the hands of the Revolutionic'te;
All this was very noble and very clean in. itsori-
ginal intention. but no nlwaye heppone, the original mace
became degenomted by mail withouc eeruplee. and with a desire
for patter.
Ken who desired to give cennande. regurdloan of
what 5.: coat or how they achieved their Glue.
They hed e
cumin elm which they meet achelve. and every neene good or
me mug-a be employed to attain it.
They tried to undermine
the etruetuz-ev and the plllero on which the society or Rueeie
existed at that tine - the autoem'tlaﬁevemm'ent of the Gear.
the Ruseinn religion. and the family.
They etarted teaching
the young people that religion was the "opium" of the people
and that any kind of government mm against the normal law of
man.
They said that the mingle livee happily without govern-
ment me why should nan be forced to héve it.
They proved
that there was no absolute knowledge about the existence of
v
God. ﬁnd, therefore. there was no religion. and there must
not be because it nae retregreeeive.
The grimly. they said,


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

953$
M. chokhov
September, 1939
was a small government of its own.
why should a father have
any right ovor a nun who did not no}: to be born.
Thoroforo.
ovoryono was free.
>
This touching brought voryhad results in the general
morale ‘of the. young people for whom there was nothing sacred.
Tho mun word
"2312111." or nothing. was used and from this
optoad tho philosophy of “Nihiliou” — the denial of everything.
ovazI'y’ching permissible. ovoIryIthlng good. a: it was 30061 for
you. regardlouu of what it did to othorn.
SonIo of the people
who were educated in th’ooImy IvoIra ldonIliot'n. but the majority
of then. like Vcrkovcnokl? wore n'cn.IIIIhO hid tho urgo to con—
IIIncunu within their
When tho tvao original idealistic movements degenera-
ted in thio my. the thinking minds. in Ruoom triod to uhow
Ito ovoryono what lay behind thin oo-cuIllcd liberal movement.
One of tho grdhtunt thinkormao Dostoyovokyk and ho Approachod
this subject in many oIf Ihla wrltinga. and porticulni-ly in
The Pouoouuod.
He took as a boom for tho novel actual hap—
ponlngo in Moscow. ouch no tho killing: of shutov.
While
Stavrogin was on invenood poroonnuty.
hIo has many of tho
traito of revolutionary loadom \I'Iho existed at that ﬁnd.
Vorkovanoki lo 1:11:051: a portrait of one of tho mil-immm
revolutionaries who even created a whole ochool of men who
know onlyI Iona thing - destroy ovorythlng if it suits you. and
every means becomes legitimate if you knot how to apply them.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
mag;
m. Chekhcv
'
Soytombor. 1939
At the prebcnt time \10 have a strong examplu of
the degeneration bf tho idealistic muvumcnt in Runnin,~ in
Vsﬁalin Ema the present regime.
Stalin 0151an 1:0 bo'n
Social Democratic Bolshovik. but all hit: actions deny every
vrinciplo or his master Lenin. who hinnelfxdu a. greatly
écgoncmted toachor of Social Democratic philosophy.
But
they cannot survive- no with Vorko'venoki. life will not
Whbring tho rosﬁltawhich thpy gxpcct.
_
oon'ouon'
