

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
F935,“
Michael Chekhov
September 26. 1939
compnessmo mus FORM
.
‘ ACTING mm!
The Peecensexll
‘
.
After we have got all the meaning and the objectives
and the center“: clearly. We have to eoeproco it: then we will
have a fine porfomco and a fine. clover-psychological approach.
You muet go on alone in thin york. no we won't have time to
go over each sentence.
when you ﬁnd the objectives, they nuet
be urgent.
'
Vorkhevcnekl'e took in to inflame Stuvroéln, to
cale him. to. who him think. to do everything with him .— to
poeeeee hip.
Hie air: in to mold him.
Tho whole econ-e must
be a devilish trick-V
For Stuvroglm
there is a. state in the
human life very often when lthe person definitely feels that
there lo one word which. if he hears if from nouevhore! r1111
enable Me to understand everything which tortureudhin uncen—
sciously. nubconeciouoly. and ooneolouely.
Sunset-$5 the partner:
cannot find thin word for years. and than cameo the moment
when he heart: this hard and his problems disappear.
This in
the state 02 Stuvrogln now.
He in looking for this word. he
will pronounce it. he will speak it, and i1: ulll hel
hin-
X‘lhen he sees Kirilov. he thinke perhaps he mfg have-the word-
Sn hie crazy eplrlt.
Perhaps Idea. but no not at all.
‘ She
gives him a counter word;
Itv in e. very urgent bueineeo for
him, and he in continually Belting. '“ano you this magic word
for 11107", from {far-tho. from everyone.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
1N3.
-1-'.;-v u.
1M. Chekhov
September 26, 1939
Everything becomes more and more sensible in ovary
way when the actor puts the question before himself.
”what
an I doing aft each moment?"
when the actor really fools one
point of__ the Method, all the other: pointy count of themselvuu.
For instance. if you take the real atmosphere. the objectives
will cone of themselves. and vice vorea.
COLTPRESSIHG THE FORM:
The next otoﬁ.
When we have more or less understood
the scene on actors. I would ouggont to compress 1:" but so
that An tho objectiveu. gooﬁros. chamotoriotico. noaninge.
etc” \1111 ‘ronain.
Comprosa it by avoiding ail unnecessary
pauses. by; having “I An" on tho stage. and fu1£11>ling all the
objectives. etc,
‘
Thin small. place which we have tried to elaborate
can be elaborated 013111 more by ﬁnding gestures and ebjoetivoe
and everytthg. and thin ohoum be done through the wholo play.
V111 you do it alarm?
Try to compress it with thin sense of
m
urgency) in tho utylo of oho play.
Find all your objectives
‘
in a emto of grand urgency.
Try, during the run-through. not to ﬂounder.- but to
explore what you are doing - what are tho objectives.
Awaken
in youraelvon tho dooiro 1:0 be moro'amre of what in going'on.
If you will feol‘hew ohapolose and aenoaleuo you are on tho
conga. m is already i: stop forward, and you will try to got
the Shane moi-lino forgo
Secondly.
tiny at the same time to


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
$853
w. Chekhov
September 26'. 1939
compress everything on that it‘uul not become more and more
vague. bu? will become more and more precieo because oi“ this
conprooeien.
It Duet become no clear - like a snow crystal.
Be more and more more of who-e TID are doing 131.1 got the cryo-
to}. form conproeood'
ACTING PREL’LYI
To not freely means that there are no- open-lo]. toeke
given. and yourvuctor'o soul can be free to follow itself.
Buc'thlo in the opportunity to remind you that to not-freely
does not mean to cn‘tor the emO uﬁhout any Fooponnibllity
to, your} audience. yourself and. your diroefor.‘
You must remem-
ber thee when you act freely.
11: name you have to cake a real
effort. on-groveot effort. to not being concentrated on all the
thingsthedirector roquiroo. That nouns don't enter the
otage without atmosphere. don't try to open): your words with-
out understanding what they noon. don' t drag the performance
for Luck of inner tempo. presence. and radiuizlon.
Without
these things. it memo to not freely and wildly.
This Hie the
great difference.
We will no}: you to not with everything.
otherwise “are 10 no prefoooiou — only certain vague thingo'.
I require you to not freely. taking all the grounds. and. to
ehovl that you are able to. do it.
Verkhovenokl (Woodie) nuet imagine himself noting
without geoturoe.
M: prooent. there are too many gestures
whieh weaken your figure.
Try to find a certain series of


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
‘¥ PM.
'2\" (EC
121, ehoknov
September 26. 1939
gestures which will. be absolutely expressive.
If you repeat
the same inoxﬁz‘eeeive gestures, it will be bad.
I! you will
imagine yourself acting without gestures. you will then drop
some of them by'yeureeif.
This will develop your taste.
i
We must reheeree what to do if the audience laughe.
er pre’céote'ngnihet certain ideas or applaud: them.
Experi-
'enecd actors” lmew hen te watch to; theme things, bu‘t we have
no mien eIL-porience so we must learn how to react .to ”these
thinge. \IO must acquire the menu.
1 Before we meet the new students, it is essentially
important that they will understand that we have a certain
atmosphere in our echeel - a certain group feeling - 11 certain
admiration for our profeeeien.
We ere 'not youngsters from the
street who will whistle on the umge.
' Our style mum: peneheu
be show-n ‘to ear um: uﬁudentn — this viii help veiy much in
lceding thee fonggrda
Picane receive them in a friendly way.
Diecard every-kinﬁof eritieien‘co that they will not foal
thee youv are 9mm; but 'they will find in you helpers and
friehde in hot critical .
