

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
Jamar“! 31>. 1933
PSYCHOLOGICAL GE
THINKING — FEELING - WILLING
INNER CHARACTERIZATION
THE INVISIBLE BODY
IHTUITION — INSPIRATION
Stanisluvsky
PSYCHOLOGICAL GBSTUREx
Have you thought about psychological gesture as I
tried to explain it to you last time?
Please do it because
we are thinking of it and trying to exercise in the form I
gavo you.
Unless you do this we will not be able to go on -
our going on will be only an intellectual illusion, not our
actor's ability.
You have seen from the last time when we
tried to make our first improvisation for tho future theatre.
how badly you need to have some ability to manage the Method.
Without this the actor does not know what to do and begins to
flounder. and the time and activity of both sides is lost.
It is good to repeat until the thing is reached.
Something
must be done — at least repetition.
Psychological gesture is something which exists be-
tween the person who produces it, and through the gesture
another person receiues the content which is behind the ges~
turo.
0n the other hand.
the gesture produced works back on
the person who has produced it.
The next step:
The ability of the gesture to in-
fluence the person who has made or has done it can be, and
must be used in our profession as a moons to investigate our


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

H. Chekhov
January 21;,
1938
mm inner life.
to increase certain feelings which we want to
have.
Therefore, by using this method of gesture we
ave at
our disposal the means not only to investigate our ovm inner
life. but to increase it in the direction in which we want to.
To make a certain gesture many. many times means to influence
our inner life. and to increase it by repeating the gesture.
In this case the most important thing is hem the gesture has
been built, and on this depends how strong the influence from
it will be on the inner life.
There are a certain number of
conditions which the gesture must follow - the gesture must
be built under certain rules, then it will be one which will
influence our inner lifo‘
THINKING - FEELING - WILLING:
The humsm nature. roughly speaking. the human inner
life, consists of three main kinds of activity.
These are
the activity of thinking of imagining, the feelinm and the
realm where the w_i;_1_ lives.
This division in three parts -
thinking, feeling. willing; — is to a certain extent justified.
and to a certain extent unjustified, because all three ac—
tivities are to a certain extent one activity.
Therefore,
when we speak about thinking, we speak conditionally about
thinking, feeling, and willing.
when we feel something, that
is we imagine something at the some time and we desire some—
thing - whether we are conscious of these three activities or
not is another question — but the human nature intends always


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

Chekhov
January 21" 1938
to put them together, althougéh one of these qualities will
always be the primary one.
New this is the psychological
side of our life.
Yesterday KI. Oppenheim spoke about actors.
This
is a very important thing for us to remember because our
will. our thinking power. and our feelings embrace our whole
body and again, conditionally, we must say that thinking
takes this part of our body (zone of head); feeling this part
(torso) where the heart is; and will‘takee the limbs.
when we wish and desire something, we wish and de-
sire with. our imagination and with our heart too, but pri—
marily with our limbs, whether we are aware of it or not.
If
we feel, we feel with our limbs, but primarily with this part
(heart).
That means that our whole body is permeated with
our thoughts or imgination from the head down; our whole
body is permeated with the feeling from the heart down: and
our whole body is permeated with the impulse streaming from
below up.
If our psychology.
in spite of this division in
three parts,
is one. and if our 1306an spite of three ports:7
is one which is permeated with the first whole thing. then
we have to draw the following conclusion:
The psychological
gesture must be produced by the means oi our whole body, and
never by the means of one of the parts of our body.
Z‘Ie have to create our psychological gestures with
our full and whole being.
Does it really mean when we want


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

m. Chekhov
January 2b, 1938
to use the ysychological gesture that we have to move the
R
whole body?
not at all.
I can indicate psychological ges-
ture by lifting only one hand, but my whole body,uhethcr it
is moving or not in synco, must be filled with certain nay-
cholcgical streams inside.
.If I move my hand upward’of
course I do not need to lift my legs at once, but psycholog-
ically I must have this gesture invisibly ih my limbs and my
torso.
By actually lifting my hand, and in imagination my
whole body, then the psychological gesture is fulfilled - all
three kinds of activity are completely taken and used for
the creation of the psychological gesture.
We have to use
our whole body and our whole psychology. remembering that
there are three kinds of activity interwoven with one another
thrcc powers we possess as living beings.
Let us say that we lift our right hand up. and we
finish our gesture like thnt.
By doing this I want you to
realize the fact that the whole body is full of this stream.
We have to overcome the common feeling that our body is mov-
able in sections.
That is the disease of today, when the
human being thinks
t consists of certain divided parts.
It
is the same process so a sculptor who would try to mold with
dry clay.
This exercise must give you the idea about the ideal
artist who, when he is on the stage,
is something like a power-
ful tropical plant which is full of quick.
luxuriant growth.


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

(5.. Chekhov
January 2%.
1938
This is again 0. link wi1zh radiation.
\
Imorciocx
Do Opposite gesture from above to down.
INNER CHARACTERIZATION!
I will repeat again.
Characterizations must be in-
tuitive creations.
There are fanatics who devote their whole
life to a method - they attempt to say that their method is
everything. but it is not.
It is nothing more "chzzm a scaf-
folding.
If the creative spirit is not there it will remain
a bare outline - nothing.
Stanisinvslw. in answer to the
criticism "I am gifted - I do not need any method,”
said) "Hy
moﬁhod is only for the gifted actor."
Therefore, by managing
this invisible body, and your center. you have always to ima—
gine that it is not everything.
Intuition must be there, and
by remembering this you will 501: great help from the method
I try to explain to you.
I will give you the task and you have to find out
what kind of invisible body you have to create, and gradually
try to move cmd speak.
This does not mean that you haw: to
maize clcvor sentences, but be sure your throat czm produce
something out of these new compositions.
THE INVISIBLE BODY:
Character:
A lady coming out of church.
will you
ylcase incorporate in this a humin being; who is mm of real,


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

1
2'1. Chekhov
January 21%. 1938
good,
strong life - that means the ability to give. because
love is not to take.
This human being is m1].
oi‘ love. and
consequently is strong and powerful.
combine these two qual-
ities.
Fore flexible - do it outwardly.
Now. will you please
repeat the exercise. this time excluding the warmth and love
and using only the will power.
By studying qualities sepa~
rately, and then putting them together. youvill get some new
shades.
nothing to do with the physical body.
Find the approach to the inner characterization.
Do not allow your physical bodies to exaggerate and to be too
early active.
Let your physical body follow your imaginary
body.
Now take the exercise using only love and warmth - the
ability to givo everything you have to the world around you.
and exclude the will pozu'or.
Put together these "mo qualities
of will power and love power. again through the creation or
your invisible body.
Don't confuse this work with the i_n-
viei‘ble body with the work of incomomtinrz
e. char-eater.
These are two different approaches and although the result is
the same the approach is different.
IHTUITION
- IX‘ISPIRATIOH:
When working on characterization the influence from
the intuition is always there.
It is a very thin something,
which you touch like a string when trying to make some real
physical. methodical. adjustment or incorporatiens of some sug—
gestions.
What does it mean?
It means that after getting


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

i1. Chekhov
January 21%,
1938
this inspiration from your intuition, you send a message back.
When the intuition gets this it sends‘oac}: a big letter which
you read. You are almost sure of the content or gist of the
letter and then you got
a. parcel. and finally a registered
lotto): from the intuition.
This is the real process:
Source
Intuition
Result
Incorporation
or
Finished piece of art
when we know we have this intercourse with our in-
tuition we are not afmid to wait.
Intuition needs much tine,
and this clever waiting for the result is hard work. but you
must wait for it.
On the other hand. the yerson who only works under
the influence of inspiration is without aim. without support.
and will have that dreadful feeling of emptiness.
He is sup-
ported only by the wings of Lucifer.
when he is full of SGML-
thing he flies everywhere, and then when the 'time comes to
really create he is empty.
This is the tragic state of many
artists who rely only on the wings of Lucifer.
The same is


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
m. Chekhov
January 24, 1938
“true of an artist who creates only cleverly and raterizllis—
\
.
.
'
timlly.
The end of this artist 15 very ﬁmgic m quzte :
different way.
