

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
 
 
1 
Katie Cangelosi  
Katiecan3@aol.com, tel. 212-666-4153 
390 Riverside Dr., #1C, NY, NY 10025 
July, 2016 
 
The Life of Nonny Gardner Cangelosi, First Wife of Irving Penn 
 
Suppose you wanted to tell a story.  You could set it in England, where many 
childhood stories are set.  The main character is a beautiful young girl with wavy 
red hair, whose parents have separated and sent her to live with grandparents 
and then to a boarding school.  She thrives there, surrounded by a community of 
writers, artists and thinkers, and a rich American heiress in charge.  As the story 
continues, the girl earns a scholarship from the school and realizes her dream to 
go to America to study art.  She enters college in Philadelphia.  Now we get to the 
boy-meets-girl part.  Our young lady meets a talented American student and they 
fall in love. 
 After graduation, the scene moves to New York and a backdrop of the thriving 
surrealist and modern art scene. The couple gets married.  The young lady works 
as a docent in the Museum of Modern Art and the husband works as the art 
director for Saks Fifth Avenue.  They decide to go live in Mexico for a while and 
return a year later, as the war in Europe heats up. 
Things begin to fall apart. They divorce, and the husband goes to Europe to drive 
an ambulance.  He later becomes an internationally famous photographer. The 
young lady joins the war effort, working in the Brooklyn Navy Yard for the Sperry 
Company, drafting isometric diagrams for machinery assembly.  She meets a 
handsome engineer and they marry and move to Long Island, where they live and 
raise a family. 
Their four children grow up, and 50 years later, they are cleaning out their 
childhood home after their parents have died.  They discover an album of 
photographs of their mother at art school and then on a trip to Mexico.  
Something about the glamorous shots and interesting poses of those photographs 
makes them wonder who was behind the lens.  They search for clues and discover 
his identity.  The photographer was Irving Penn.  The album is donated to the Art 
Institute of Chicago.  The children are awed by this discovery, and by the fact that 
all these years they never knew the story of the first marriage of their mother—
my mother. 


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
 
 
2 
Nonny Gardner was born on August 7, 1914. Her name comes from Shakespeare’s 
“Much Ado about Nothing”:   
 Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, 
    Men were deceivers ever, 
 One foot in sea and one on shore, 
 To one thing constant never. 
 Then sigh not so, but let them go, 
 And be you blithe and bonny, 
 Converting all your sounds of woe  
 Into Hey, nonny nonny. 
 
The story she told us was that her father, Rex Gardner, was reading the play to 
her mother, Eva Birch, while they were preparing for the birth of their first child.  
This was in England at the start of World War I. Rex was an architect and 
craftsman and a conscientious objector, who spent time in jail because of his 
beliefs.  Mom got from him her red hair, fiery spirit and love of art and nature.  
Eva was a gentle and loving woman.  At the end of the war, they lived in a 
thatched cottage, where her brother, Rex, was born, and she felt the comfort and 
security of a family.  That ended in 1920, when her parents separated.  Her 
mother could not support two children alone, and so their father assumed 
responsibility for them.  His new wife, however, did not want to share that 
responsibility. 
Nonny grew up mostly at her grandparents’ house in Letchworth Garden City, 
north of London. The first “Garden City” in England was in the forefront of an 
effort at town planning in order to bring parks and fresh air to England as the 
population grew and towns got bigger.  It had a reputation as a city of “cranks”; 
George Bernard Shaw lived near there.  Mom was given a proper English 
education—her vocabulary made her impossible to beat at “Scrabble.”  She 
became a dancer and a gymnast.  Pictures of her at age 12 show her doing full 
splits and back bends.  Mom learned to think independently and to take risks, but 
she also yearned for more of a normal childhood and for stability.  The tension 
this created in her became the source of both her triumphs and her struggles 
throughout her life. 
Nonny enrolled as a student in Dartington Hall, in Totnes, Devon, near where both 
her parents lived.  Her father was hired by the owners of the school, Dorothy 
Whitney and her second husband, Leonard Elmhirst, to help restore a manor 


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
 
 
3 
property from the Middle Ages.  Whitney wanted to establish a progressive 
school of the arts there.  My mother danced, studied theater, designed costumes, 
painted, and met a variety of interesting people—artists, dancers, thinkers and 
writers, with a variety of views on life, politics, and philosophy.   She proved 
herself intelligent, energetic and capable.  For these qualities, she was given a 
scholarship to study art in America at the Philadelphia Museum School of 
Industrial Art.  After crossing the ocean in the summer of 1933, and then crossing 
America by plane, train, and auto with her school friends, Beatrice Straight 
(daughter of Dorothy Whitney and her first husband) and Bridget D’Oyly Carte 
and Bethene Miller (dance students at Dartington Hall), to California, and then 
back to the East Coast, she enrolled at PMSIA. 
Nonny took courses in photography, costume design, theater, and other areas, 
enlarging her artistic vision and learning and perfecting her artistic skills.  She 
gave up dancing because she didn’t have the “right” body.  She was too short, but 
she never lost her interest in dance. Years later I found among her possessions 
two programs, from the tour of the Ballets Russes to the US in the 1930s.  During 
the summers she went off to work in a theater program at Western Reserve 
University in Cleveland.  In the summer of 1940, she visited the Michael Chekhov 
Theater School in Ridgefield, Connecticut.  The Chekhov School had been 
established first at Dartington Hall, but moved to Connecticut in 1938 as the 
threat of war grew in Europe.  She already had many friends there. 
Her years in Philadelphia were busy and productive.  She was surrounded by 
people with the talent and ability to make things happen.  It was a time when 
Surrealism was making its controversial entrance and engaging the public’s 
imagination.  Perhaps it is not surprising that she connected her interest in 
Shakespeare and Surrealism when she wrote and designed the costumes for the 
play “Shakespeare Paranoically Speaking”, which was performed at the annual 
Alumni Ball of the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Art to raise money 
for the Alumni Association.  She was quoted in an article from the Conshohocken 
Recorder, Conshohocken, PA, on March 15, 1937: 
 
“If you were to come as Nero in conventional Roman toga and with a 
fiddle—that would hardly be Surrealistic.  But come in the same toga, carrying 
but half a fiddle, and with a belt of broiled crabs strung on a chain, with 
multicolored shoes, and perhaps a lamb chop or two thrown over your 
shoulder, and you will feel at home.” 


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
 
 
4 
While at PMSIA, she met fellow student Irving Penn.  They both studied 
photography with Alexey Brodovich, and Penn, of course, showed great talent, 
although he was also interested in painting at that time.  Their relationship grew 
in their student days and continued after graduation.  My mother kept many of 
the photographs of herself taken by him and by the other students of 
photography.  As the costume designer for the student production at the Alumni 
Ball, her albums contain dozens of photographs of herself and others modeling 
her costume creations. 
After school they lived in New York City.  Nonny worked as a docent at the 
Museum of Modern Art.  At that time, it was moving to its new building on 53rd 
Street.  She received an invitation (which she kept—she kept everything!) to the 
opening ceremonies.  On occasion, Irving Penn’s brother, Arthur, came up from 
Philadelphia to visit them in New York City.  They took him around to movies, 
theater, museums, etc., and introduced him to their friends.  Arthur Penn grew up 
to become a well-known movie and TV director (his works include "The Miracle 
Worker", "Bonnie and Clyde", etc.)  Arthur is very complimentary of her as a 
"take-charge" type of person. Reflecting on those times he said, in his later years: 
"Irving taught me everything," Arthur muses. "He taught me not to spit on 
the street (what did I know? I was a street kid; it's what you did). At that 
time, he was going with a terrific woman named Nonny, whom he would 
later marry, who sort of took me under her wing." Nonny had studied 
costume design at England's historic Dartington Hall and insisted on 
bringing Arthur to museums where modern art was making its controversial 
debut. "It was nuts to me," Penn now blushes, adding, "I was just sixteen." 
With Irving and Nonny living together, it allowed Arthur to avoid his father, 
preferring his brother and Nonny's Bohemian crowd.  
"I was sort of funny and saucy and snotty," he remembers, "but not with 
them. It was a nice experience to suddenly be in a kind of community, 
albeit that they were five or six years older than I was." Together they 
explored the rapidly changing American creative scene, including WPA 
[Works Progress Administration] productions of “One Third of a Nation” 
and the cautionary anti-venereal disease play “Spirochete”. Seeing theater 
at professional levels further nudged Arthur in that direction." (Arthur 
Penn: American Director, Nat Segaloff, 2010).   


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
 
 
5 
They were married in New York City in 1940.  Soon after, they took off on a new 
adventure—a trip to Mexico, taking photos along the way.  They travelled by train 
to Washington, DC, and through the South to New Orleans.  The photos then 
jump to shots of Mexico and the local people and markets.  There are also several 
still-life shots, with plants and animals.  Nonny appears in many of the shots, 
sometimes as the subject and sometimes camouflaged among the dense 
vegetation in the gardens.  In one shot she holds 2 baby chicks—on her head! 
My mother had lots of stories to tell about that year, although none of them 
included the fact that she was married to Irving Penn.  She brought back lots of 
things: skirts, painted toys, and a wooden painted box bought in the market.  The 
vendor told her it was a 300 year old jewelry box from Spain, but we really don’t 
know for sure.  She also brought back a taste for tropical fruits and Mexican food, 
although mangos weren’t easy to find at the local Long Island supermarket. 
They came back to America as the threat of war in Europe grew.  Penn’s father 
had fallen very ill.  Penn destroyed all his paintings before leaving Mexico.  His 
future would be in photography.  Their paths began to diverge.  Soon after, they 
separated and divorced. Rejected by the army, Penn wanted to go to Europe to 
drive an ambulance in Italy.  Nonny found a job with the Sperry Company, drafting 
isometric diagrams for machinery assembly.  She worked in the Brooklyn Navy 
Yard.  My father, John Cangelosi, an aerospace engineer and the son of 
immigrants from Sicily, was also working at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, designing 
naval aircraft.  They fell in love and married in 1944.  My mother left New York 
City and the life she had been living there. 
They moved to East Northport, Long Island, and raised four children. It was only 
50 miles away, but she left behind her career and her friends and turned her 
energy towards having a family, something she had always wanted. For us, it was 
a typical 1950s suburban childhood.  But it was different in some aspects.  Our 
childhoods were filled with the intensity of our mother’s personality and her 
interests.  She worked very hard, she cared a lot; it meant so much to her to be a 
mother. She gave us a love of music, from Beethoven to the Beatles; an 
appreciation of wacky British humor—I’m sure we all remember her collapsed in 
laughter on her couch over “Monty Python” or “Fawlty Towers”; an appreciation 
for the birds she always fed in our garden; a respect for cactus—she grew 
hundreds from seed for the Northport High School Mexican Fiesta; and a love of 
play acting and dress-up.  Occasionally, she showed us photographs of her family 


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
 
 
6 
in England; and then there were those pictures of her in one of her albums, 
looking like a glamorous movie star.  Where did she get those? 
She did everything with passion—like the eight giant tanks of tropical fish that 
inhabited our dining room for a few years. I’m sure we were the only kids in the 
neighborhood in the 1950’s who had Hawaiian chicken, artichokes or tacos for 
dinner.  Our yard was the one filled with children—she cared less about the grass 
than other mothers did. She planned the most elaborate birthday parties in the 
neighborhood, including pony rides in the front yard; a “Come dressed as your 
mother or father” party; a carnival, with multiple games and a fortune teller (my 
older sister, Nonny).  In our teenage years, she decorated the basement as the 
Peppermint Lounge. 
My mom didn’t talk about her marriage to Irving Penn.  She told her eldest 
daughter, Nonny, that she had been married once before but didn't really want to 
say much about it.  Nonny eventually told my brother, my younger sister and me 
when we were all adults and on our own. It was one of those things which we just 
didn't feel comfortable asking for details about, and she never brought it up.   We 
eventually figured it out. 
 When my dad was in the nursing home in 1999, at the end of his life, he was 
rambling on one day when I was visiting.  He mentioned something about my 
mom and "Penn" and then went on to talk about other things.  I went through 
some of my mom's photos and papers and found a program from “Shakespeare 
Paranoically Speaking” which had her name on it and Irving Penn's name as well, 
so we had a clue.  But my mom was never mentioned in any biography or other 
information about Penn, so we really had questions in our mind about all this.   
We occasionally tried to find things on the Internet, but nothing at all came up 
until September 2012, when the pages from the Arthur Penn biography, by Nat 
Segaloff, published in 2010, turned up on the computer (discovered by my 
brother-in-law during a moment of web-surfing).   
I contacted the author and we talked about my mom.  He didn't know much 
about her background, so I filled him in.  He was very interested in hearing her 
story.  He contacted the former head of the photography department at the 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, Maria Hambourg, who had curated shows of Penn's 
photographs, and she got in touch with me.  She was in the process of writing a 
book about Irving Penn's work after the War. We got together and I showed her 


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
 
 
7 
my mother’s album with the photos taken on their trip to Mexico.  There were 
spaces in the album where some photos had been removed.  Were they shots of 
Penn?  Many of the photos were recognizable as examples of Penn’s particular 
style. 
The albums (she made three other albums with photographs of England and her 
travels across country and her years in Philadelphia and New York City) and a box 
of photo negatives, letters from her family, and other memorabilia were stored in 
the attic of our home in East Northport for 50 years.  After my parents moved to a 
nursing home, we had to deal with the contents of the house.  We knew there 
were lots of photographs and letters that were stored away, but as we pulled all 
the boxes and suitcases out of the closet, it was a bit overwhelming.  There were 
many more boxes with papers and objects that we had never seen, or didn’t 
remember seeing. 
My sister Nonny stored almost everything in the basement of her house.  When 
she downsized to an apartment, I took everything and stashed it in closets and 
bureaus, under beds, anywhere I could find space.  I retired from my job at the 
United Nations in September 2010, and a couple of years later, after finding the 
reference in Nat Segaloff’s book online, I took off on my search for the story 
behind the photographs in the album of her trip to Mexico.  The search led me to 
the Irving Penn Foundation in New York, where I received confirmation of the 
identity of the man behind the lens, and went on to learn more about my 
mother’s life.  The album from this trip was given the name “The Nonny Gardner 
Album of Photographs by Irving Penn from the Collection of Nonny Gardner” by 
the appraiser.  We donated it to the Art Institute of Chicago, which holds the 
archives and work of Irving Penn. 
My mother lived such an interesting life, adapting her identity as she went along.  
She was a child of a broken home, raised by grandparents born in the Victorian 
era; a young dancer and student at a “progressive” school; a teenager who left 
her family and country and traveled to the United States during the Depression to 
study art, as Surrealism and modern art were changing established views; the 
wife of Irving Penn, and a “big sister” to Arthur Penn; a docent at the Museum of 
Modern Art; an artist trained in drawing and design, joining the war effort; and 
for over fifty years, a wife and mother in East Northport, Long Island.  Her journey 
was not easy, but out of crisis she seized the opportunity to create a new and 
more fulfilling path throughout her life.  She made us laugh; she made us cry.  We 
will always miss her. 


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

NONNY GARDNER 
Timeline 
 
1914:  Born August 7, 1914, Leicester, England. 
 
1920:  Parents (Eva Birch and Rex W. Gardner) separate. Sent to live with grandparents in Letchworth 
Garden City.  Visits parents in Devon on holidays and in the summer.  Sees brother, Rex Gardner, on these 
occasions.  
 
1929-1932 (approximate):  Student at Dartington Hall, a progressive school of the arts in Devon, founded by 
Dorothy Whitney and her second husband, Leonard Elmhirst.  Nonny’s father, Rex W. Gardner, is an 
architect working on the restoration of Dartington Hall.  She receives a scholarship from Dartington Hall and 
Dorothy Whitney to study art in the US. 
 
1932:  Takes courses at the Heatherley School of Fine Art, London. 
 
1933:  Arrives in New York.  During the summer, she travels across the US with Beatrice Straight (Dartington 
Hall student and daughter of Dorothy W. S. Elmhirst), and Bridget D’Oyly Carte and Bethene Miller (dance 
students at D. Hall). 
 
1933-1937:  Attends the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Art.  As a student, designs costumes for 
the Surrealist Ball, and writes script and oversees production of “Shakespeare Paranoically Speaking.”  
Fellow student Irving Penn is also involved in this production. 
 
1935, 1936 (approximate):  Attends summer theater programs at Western Reserve University in Cleveland, 
Ohio.  
 
1937:  Graduates from the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Art.   Takes post-graduate courses at 
PMSIA, 1938. 
 
1938 (summer): Takes trip to Devon, England, to visit family. 
 
1939 (spring):  Works as a docent at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.  Invited to the opening of the 
new MoMA building on May 10, 1939. 
 
1940 (summer):  During the summer visits the Michael Chekhov Theater, Ridgefield, Connecticut.  Originally 
located at Dartington Hall, the Chekhov Theater moves to Connecticut during World War II. 
 
October 1940:  Marries Irving Penn in New York City. 
 
1941-1942 (approximate):  Travels with Penn to Coyoacan, Mexico; they stay in the house of Mrs. Georgia 
Etter.  Upon return to New York, they separate and are divorced in 1943.  
 
1943:  Trains to work for the war effort at Sperry Gyroscope Co., in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, creating 
isometric drawings for machine assembly. 
 
1944:  Marries John Cangelosi, aeronautical engineer. 
 
1945, 1946, 1950, 1954:  Children born. Lives in East Northport, Long Island, NY. 
 
1998:  Buried in Lincoln Cemetery, Massachusetts. 
