

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

799i
 
Michael Chekhov
January 25. 1990'
CONCENTRATION - IMAGINATION
THE CREATIVE WORLD
The cricket on tho Hoorthi
CONCE‘ITRATIOH - III‘AGINATIQN!
Real creativo imagination in impoooiblo without
‘
the ability to concentrate.
Concentration in a thing which
can 170' developed to at certain extent. to more than thug. and
to tho highest cotton-t.
without the ability to conoonoi-ato
our attontion to a very high dam-co. everything in useless in
the creative procooo.
It is nothing but floundering about
ﬁnd not a. real creative procoon.
We may think that some grout artists have created
their wot-k without any precious training. and thio‘iu true in
none canon of tool talent, but no must forgot ouch accidental
things - thorn will be times when such an artist cannot orouua
his imagination and will sometimes waoto many mtilo hours.
An artiot my my.
“I will occopt my destiny - if I can cream.
I will. but when I can't. I won't."
But this is not our point
of viow because \10 are
a. school.
We must take the point of
View that we have all the abilities nocoosufy for an artist
and that in the school we must develop theoo ubilitﬁoo.
\10
must dovdiop our irongination. our concentration, our ability
for group feeling. for radiation, for fouling of form, fooling
of‘bcauty. otc. M
What .5 an about to toll you. concerning concentration.
you must accept an something to which you must aspire.
You


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
aeeE
Y?'v§i
Id. Chekhov
January 25,
1940
must do these exercisee every day or your work will be lost.
We knew that rhythmical repetition in‘enetéi-oe does: more good
than violent effort today which in followed by days of doing
nething.
That is more destructive than constructive.
Five
minutee eﬁchuday‘wini'give you more then spasmodic efferte of
longer time.
Ifgeuv‘yﬁli’dovelep your ability te concentrate,
your imagination will grew as if of itself.
When your im-
I ginﬁtien lie etreng. this ability to leenecn'travto yew: attention
and keep the object on which yen are concentrating like a
atone in your heart, that is the aim.‘
The strength oi' the
real concentrated attention in very similar to the feeling of
strength in the healﬁhy nuecieo of one's hand.
It in acne-
thing like u gigantic grip?
V
homily. to 'bo cenccncrnted en eenethina does not
mean to be eencentrn’ceri with one sense - it means to be eon-
conﬁrmed with an our ecnsee, aii em: abilities which the
human being has. whether we lmew then or not.
The whole
human being hne to be taken by this act of concentration and
with all these invisible powers tend fo'rcee which we poeeeee.
we have to make this grip.
If we gill‘got thie ability and
develop it. the ability to uee out whoie being for gripping
an objective - whether it in n phy'eicel one or m imaginative
one - than we will get the first idea of what it means to be
concentrated on something.
It will be a miracle. and you
will discover new things which you did not know existed: auch


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
41‘
L”)
(7‘;
m. Chekhov
acumeasanmo
qualities and doptho of thingu.‘ ”Only-ﬁr uo (5211on tho object.
with our whole being. with oll:our poworu and forcou and
qualitioo which we have in our living being. 9111 the miracle
happen.
Exorcioou
Concentrate all]. your ubin'tio‘o on the lamp - try to
sea
1'3 - than strotch your hand and try totouch it. although
yculcnnnot bocnuoo of tho diotonco. but got tho fooling that
you are touching it.
Curtain pcrta'ro muot'bo awakened
12': us
if no God and touch this distant thih'g ulth our whole being.
Then shut your eyes any! touch it without owing. 'Try to in-
crcaoo ‘thio fouling of boingnro free. ﬁnd not’ in your bodies.
as (it were.
Try to group tho limp and pooooﬁhn. and havo
it with. your whole being.
Try to ponottoﬁo intoltt and;
saturate tho, lamp with your whole .boing, and become almost one
with it.
Purely poychologicol‘ - tho more purely psychological.
tho ncorar you will be to the ideal.
_
If you onto tired. it 10 good. because it means you
have made an effort.
Bo no oftongly merged with the loop
_
that you can fool. its woight.
Try to ponetratu into the
glaoo of which it 1o nude. and try to zoom the guolity of
the loop. being-1n it - hot: hot-d, hon breakable, how olxiotic -
all thouo qualitioo mum: ho yours.
Now youuill fooi that you
are streaming to the loop. that you are ﬂick-ling to‘ it.
You
can get it with your houtto. your hands. your ooul. your: whole


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
\>"\’ 341‘
m. Chekhov
January 25. 1940
being has the lump.- Tﬁon you wlll feel that you are crouflﬁg
the lamp at this moment - at tﬁﬁg moment it would nos exist
without ysu becausb you are cicdtiﬁg it.
Now. bsing so much
with the lamp.- try to asks the gesture ofpussivo acceptance.
What will come from it?
The lamp will speak to you - the
object will speak to you about its qualities. if you will
exerciss ouflicicntly.
Those qualities willarise before you “thur
liks a conscious drsnn - msro concrdts than a memory and more
orgsnlnod than a dream.
'
‘
If no will try to dovoloy our concentration in this
way by making an effort svory day, gradually we will got
another feeling. and this will bo the actual {*bss.
unon
concentrating on sosothlng. whether lt is viaiblo or in your
imaginstlcn. you will gas the fouling of oxhilarstion, and
you will become quieter aha stronger.
A fooling of health
ass null-being and youth.
Certain psychological sstlsfuctlon
will come.
Life will cons from sisplo concentration.
When concenfratian is dsvolopcd to the point where
you are 1nfﬂgﬁsratsd.'thcn you will know what concentration
is.
You will be happy becauso you will use has your imagina-
tion will Eocene suits n differsnt ans.
1% will come about.
us it were.
Always try to understand those things as baing
intangible things in comparissn with chairs and tables. but
more tangible bosauso thoy are spiritual. and spiritual
values and things are more concrete than our concrete things
horo-


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
P005
Quit
M. Chekhov
January 25. 19%
THE CREATIVE WORLD!
. This kind of concretenous in actually the creative
world - there 5nd only thorn begin: tho human creation.
Thcoo
exercises on simple concentration and, at the same time, the
creation of part0... will oomotinoo come together: and than \10
will know that tho wholo technique of the actor will ho
justified.
The real actor is u very noblo being and not sono-
ono who goon running after parts.
If you fool the high quality
of? our curt. the real dignity of ouzj'azt and what must hen dono
inoido ourselvoo to become roul‘octoro. you will fool that
you are serving othoro.
You cannot giiro your heart to othoro
without fooling that you give everything to then.
If you willgwuﬂ
got our art in this higher uopoct.‘ you will fool that you are
taking your heart uhd giving it to your follow man.
Then you
will crouto with your individuality. which is aboolutoly
prooiouo.
I @031: about thouo things in connection with tho
oiuplo exorcise of concentration because than: in nothing in
our profoooion which can be undorotood and performed without
dignity.
Everything in noble and must havo'ingnity.
This
concentration.
this grip with our whole being. can ho executed
with objecto which on purely imaginative.
eroioon
Imagine A yellow flower and try to grip thin imagina-
tive flower with all your being.
Try to have it with $11 your


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
meE. ,‘
‘93.:
m. Chekhov
January 25. 1940
human abilities and faculties:
' Keep it and then an a last
effort, be paeeive end lpt
11; epcnk to you.
How can this highly developed ability of concentra-
tion be applied to our art?
It will apply lteelf.
If you
have the ability to uonéentmte. you will get more and more
a. certain strange feeling - when you ere not concentrated on
eonething, you will feel meenlfartuble. and it will neon no
11’ none-mini: is \‘Irong.'
Then you will see that you are
obvieuuly net concentrated; and your arm ueul will immediately
get the deeire'to be conefntrated inetlnctively. and it will
77
become a more and more cenetnnt etote.
Thin 10 what we are aiming at when we are preparing,
curl pent - we will not lose our (more; and time beceueo every-
thing will become concentrated of necessity.
On stage we will
not be dlotraeted.
We will always be able to grip the moat
. important thlng. end the whole performance will baceno one
hythnicnl thing.
  
When the perfomnce in flnlehed. you will be more
alive and powerful them before it begin. because it mm done
in a concentrated way.
All the offegte you hill make towards
this coneentmtion will give you. cogigthing which you cannot
  
buy. nere “éiennnot be given to you.
The result will be a new
ability.
at new muscle which will serve you of itself.
In doing those exerciser: alone you muut try to remem-
ber one thing - you must be concentrated with your whole being.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
“05
m. Chekhov
January 25. 1940
If you will try to do this. your whole being will become more
and more clear to you.
You will experience who you are and
how powerful you are psychologically.
This will grow of
itself.
Imagine that in our being is a little box in which
are all our foolingo.
Thc box is closed and on the stage we
cannot got certain feelings because we cannot order our fool-
ingo. but this power of concentration will open this box. and
you will be astonished to find that your foolingo will be
there immediately.
All things are at your disposal. real and
concrotoly.
The box has opened.
If you try to force out
tears. for instance, you will only make grimacos.
when you
are concentrated, you will have yourself in your own handu.;
and this will be an nrtiotic pleasure.
You may take different objects for your concentration
exercises.
Or you may try to concentrato on the whole universe-
of Shorstaro. and try to touch them.
You will coo that all
the otars will come so near.
Then you will get the ability
to extend yourself. and extend yourself to such an extent that
you will touch the stars. without our materialistic feelings
of distance.
To be concentrated on the whole universe rcquirao
not our calculations but something different - our whole being.
Or try to embrace the wholo earth - then tho earth becomes
shall but you must expand your being to the extent that you
will get some new things, and that is what we need from our


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
£08
A
0
/}h
m. Chekhov
January 25.
1940
characters. our images. our parts so that they will speak to
us jhst as the lump at the beginning of the lesson did.
‘
That means that oonoentration consists of two oppo-
site geeturns - tremendouo_activity and at the same time
tremendous passivity.
To be only active in concentration means
to make the universe omall and to be only passive neane to
lose younaolf.
The two gestures must be thorer—tremondous
gesture to be able to touch and hold, and tremendous activity
to be able to receive the answer.
,
.
o
_
Whether it is the lamp or the univoree which is
the objeet, the technique is tho same and tho whole being is
organized for these exercises. not only the ates or ears or
other senses. but the whole being with all its powers end
abilitieu.
Feeling of ease:
Start with tho desire to be light
and easy.
This feeling of ease is sitting in the same box as
all our artistic emotions and feelings.
