

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
$19.6
Michael Chekhov
February 5, 191m
ILEAGINATION
THE INNER LIFE OF THE CHARACTER
BECOYJING THE CHARACTER
BECOMING AN ACTOR
CONCENTRATION
TWO STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
BISPIRA'I'ION
INCORPORATION
‘
EURHYTHM!
FIRE
ITEPROVISATION
King Lam.-
Dx'. Steiner
Hamlet
IMAGINATION!
~
We have upokcn about conconmtion. and now I want
to speak about imanmntim.
Thorn in u very first stage in
imagination ~ to havo an 112350 which we can describe and can
son with our eyes closed. no ”you.
That 10 the very firm
stage which in very clone to Dimple memory, but that in not
what we want to develop in our school.
THE INNER LIFE OF THE CHARACTER!
In our ounce. imagination in something which in much
more profound - camothing no 11’ clairvoyant.
This special
kind of'hnoimg“ tho 1::ng - through the outer imgo which you
have before your cloncd’iigoa. an it were. you have to 500 39.
innoz life of tho inngo.
You have to one the 20v:holog?v of
the image.
You have to non its feelings, to non its emotions.
its will impuluoo. and even its thoughts.
V
In our profession all the thoughts must be turned
into action and foolingn. but the thoughts of the image must


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
 
>31 e K‘ <:
M. Chekhov
February 5. 1940
be nomonow ”econ.”
If you will understand thin, you will see
why thin produce of “seeing" the inner life of the charaotor
in really o. iiind of eigh‘e.
It in not guessing. it in seeing -
with what?
not with your oyoe. but with something whitenlie
the combination of your own will and heart.
We cen_ooo with our whole being and that in right.
With our whole being we must 1:00 the whole being of the cher-
nctor which arises before ue. or nits in us.
You will see
that writers and pmm1rightu cannot write pluya without having
thin second night.
not it were.
Thin ability to eee‘tho inner
life of the character roquiresvory intoneivo oxorciues.
We
cannot be satisfied with what we have because we all haw:
this ability -
ii: in only in exceptional cueoe where a person
cannot see the image — but for our profession we have to be
specialists in seeing the inner life of the character.
BECOMING THE CHARACTER:
Don'ﬁbe autinfied with chewing only the outer image.
Lake the effort to one the inner life. but this does not mean
that you have to discard the outer parts - the outer part0
and the inner life are one.
When we got thin ability to see
with our whole inner life and activity and will, the will and
the heart of tho other being. then we will become influenced
by it. when we see this inner life so obviously and get it in
our own inner will and feelings. than we M9. the character.
Inwardly - that means that we get the desire to do the same


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
 
,m, ..
m. Chekhov
Fobruar’y 5. who
on tho image does. to open}: tho odmo wordo. to fool the some
feelings. and x10 became in a certain oonoo tho character.
'
BECOMING AN ACTOR:
Thin very happy moment may oéuo only oftozjunomnavo
ﬁnally developed this ability to ace tno inner life of tho
character so strongly that mm it.
To half 000 it in
not enough.
So you mot dovolop thin abiliiy until you will
got thin special thing. which you will recognize immediately.
You will not be able to conzuoo ‘tho imaginary thing and Itho
real one.
Tho moment will come when you will know what it
meant: to imagine the inner life of tho chamotor.
When you
got this. than vou will bacono an actor at thin mononc.
That
in the my to that innor point whom we are octora.‘
Then we
are born on actors.
Then no will got mediatoly tho dooiro
and the ability to not the character. and Wu will never rely
upon our voice or body only - oubsti’cutiono for,tho inner
life - all them: protoncoo will be gono. and no will foal
offended if wo fry to not with owner moans. after this onpori-
onco.
You will fool how cheap it in,
.
CON CEITRA’I‘ION I
To get thin ability to penetrate into tho inner
life of the character, we have to develop the ability to
concentgoto our attention in‘ tho may we have opokon about in
the loot locturo.
To find this special contact \10 have to


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
EEeE
m. Chekhov
February 5. 19ho
be concentrated - we touch these inner things with our ,uhole
being and that means to be concentrated.
Combine the leeeon
on concentration with thin one and you .will can that they
are no very close together that they cannot be ueparated.‘
It
in one are; one event. and only for the sake of exerciee do
we ueparato than.
When \10 go on to inco
oration. you will
see that it in the am thing~ - part of the one big event in
tho actdr's being whichio who thingpnd only for the cake
or exerciuo do no diwedc 11:.-
I
W
There are two poeci‘hilitioe for becoming the char-
acter.
One way, which we deny, in that of really becoming.
an it were. read, and losing oneself and becoming peeeeeeed by
the character.
This leads only to hyuterice and psychological
illness. although it‘in peocible to become the character in
thin Donne.
Very often actors who try to get core and more
from the character 50 this wrong way. and become really ill.
Guz- appreach in a different one. and the whole group of
exercises in our echool is actually the guarantee that we
will not go in this wrong way, hecauue in inagining we are
always objective.
To imagine and create in our some means
to he always a little above our arm being.
T110 STATES OF COHSGIOUSHESSI
If you will imagine yourself as an actor trying to
equoeze out of himself the caeunge from Kin
Lear,
"Blew.
winds. and crack yeur cheekul
rage:
blow!" you will see that


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
P10 E
1'? ‘< h r:
M. Chekhov
February 5. 1930
it cannot be done.
But in our way. so look st Lear in our
spirit and we are waiting for these ouggcs’ébns and inspire-
tions as artists - that nouns people with {no consciousneﬂees.
The artist cannot be'rlith one consciousness - there are two-
ono is ores‘hive. objectivcmnd inspiring; and the other is
moving. and speaking at the case tine.
M. the moment when
the artist merges together with the other but recites or acts
' or dances. than the hystéries are there.
Try to imagine the linear "Blew. winds. and crack
'your cheokelhnoing concentrated on tho 1:130 of Leer und his
nun-cundinge.
'Try to imagine his in a concentrated way and
try to do it.
First consontmte‘und then try. through 3pm
concentration. to not with your whole being. observing Boar's
inner life at this moment.
Then I will um: you to incorporate
it as much as possible.
or take the moment; "when Hamlet is
on the castle tower and seat: for the first time the ghost of
his father and says.
"Father-I“.
In this process of ingining you will see that there
is a desire to imagine the inner life with our whole being.
and at this moment you will see that you need somehow to
move - to begin, as it were. to not.
Don't stop. this, but
allow yourself to move.
The more you will imagine. and by
imagining become somehow free and allow yourself to move. the
better it is because we are actors: and our profession is to
convey everything we have to our audience by moons of our


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
22 0 8
AN Q ‘1
H. Chekhov
Febmary 5, 19M)
bodice, and voices. etc.
So it in right when imagining to
have our bodice so free and at our diepeeal that they will
anew theme movements.
Of course. if'yeu will try to move
before you have imagined. it will be rough; but you will find
to what extent you can do thin by menu of exoreioing.
In our ago. an you knew.‘ alneet all our inner pewere
have degenerated and that ueano that our head or brain has
usurped all other powers. and we find eureolvee dieting -
being Being] only what we make or the efforto with our brain
like a peychological cripple - that in what we are.
This
powerful thing has a little appendix which ie our whole being -
therefore. it leeko like a cripple.
But actors have no right
to be powerful in the brain end weak everywhere 93,230.
We
cannot act with our head at all - only with cur being. and the
head muot be the appendii. of our whole being and only the face.
which is very subtle - not anatomical and psychological - will
reflect our life and inner activity which coneo from the whole
being first and then ie nbrrorcd.‘
Therefore. it io so ugly
when the actor begine to make races inetead of ueing hie own
body.
Only when the actor-in able to yeur Everything] into
hievheie being. then the face becomea beautiful of iteelf.
So. if we will try to imagine with our whole being, and if we
will allow our heade to imagine with no, then thekthief which
eitting in .the brain will become weaker and weaker.
So be
aware when the brain triee to usurp and concentrate everything
in the head.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
M. Chekhov
Fabruars' 5|
19130
There are mrvolous axproanionn in Dr. stainor'u
booku when he spcuka about the kinda of concentration.
Ho
auggestﬁthat at certain momenta the whole boing bananas an
ear, or the whole being becomes‘ an organ for touching.
Our
whole being must become like his: opoatuclau- to catch the
life which the image before us produces and radiates.
There
in tho wholdboing. tho imgo which \70 are looking at. and
we are the whole being - there in no brain. no auto or ayeu -
two whole beings noa’cing each other. and when they max-go.
inspiration canon ‘and' no can act.
INSPIRATION l
.
A11 ’othor attempts to nm‘: vii], be either making
menu or trying to Juutify onoaoif to tho uudionco. and one
will always look like a puppet 6n. tho atggo.
Junt an a nut-
uraliutic pcrfomanco on ‘tho ctugollooko like u puppai.
Th6
nerd natural tho actor in. the more like a puppet he locum
bocuuuo thorn in no inspiration.
But if'tho‘ézvmo natural
thing - for example. drinking on tho utdgo - canon through
inspiration. than ﬁho drinking will be drinking. glut: art;
The whoio aocrot lien in where we got our inspiration - from
the world of tho imginmion or from our clovomouu which
sits somatimau in the head. uomgtimoo in the logu and hands.
anci no on.
It in cilovemaao which nan'tA‘hc used on the
stage.
It in not very useful to uh because-it is taking the
nature as it is and not slipping over it.
We must get it


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
"f ~Z0 a
I of exerciace.
leu much: 1.53110 your body such a. flexible instru-
m. Chekhov
February 5.
1911/0
from 1:110 other side. And that in by developing our concen-
tmtion ehich will give uu the’e‘bility te‘recoivo imprecuiene
from euteide .
INCORPORATION a.
You have made an effort to create the inner life
of Lent — whether you have euecccdcd fully or not in not
important.
'i‘he‘ important' thing in that you have made the
attempt to de‘it.
You can 'develop it, and you Duet' by name
ment that it will catch euggeetienn inﬁediutoly'fren your
imagination;
\‘Ihon you try ze'incemomte; you will find it‘
ie not quite what you have inngincd.’
That iciuluaye the way,
but {me mora‘vo develop eni- o'bility to imgine and also the
.cffort to 50%. the whole boiﬁg o! the other". the unre'outlctta
intio taste will be developed.
EURHYTHHYI
Your instrument in a little behind what you see in
your imagination.
First of all. this ohe'gls no the neceueity
to develop our bodice and voices and] especially. through
Eurhythny becuuuo Eurthhw catches the meet creative impulses
of your spirit.
Then you will see that all the gymnastics-
which we do are butt: little child because mrhyﬂmy excr-
ciuou are spirit, and our body and our voice becomeu euro and
more permeated with the spiritual impulses.
That in what we


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
2208
"also.
It may trike longer. but it leads up to the air: which
H. Chekhov
February 5. 1940
need for other things which are intangible and cannot be
grasped by rude means.
They are 1:11ng which are everywhere
and nowhere. which have shape and which have not.
It in a
epiritunl thing which permeates our bodies through Eurhythmy
and the method of Dr. Steiner.
Artiste are specialists in the apii‘itual aenee.
otherwiue theyerc puppets and nothing else.
Therefore. try
to realise what'wo have Eurhythmy to: and the sheeeh method
we visualize.
Of course. we met not become prefeeeienul
Eurhythnieto becauee it'ie an art which in different. but it
enables we to permeate each ucahu of oxpreeeien by this
spiritual impulse.
The more you will develep‘yeur ability to
sea the images in their inner life. the more you will come to
the idea SthnﬁMhythny ie as necessary- for yen. he water or
air.
Then you will take more and more from Eurhythny and the
speech method .
FIRE:
The other thing we have in our imagination. eenething
Which inupiten ua. mkee uu happy and creatively burning so
that \70 feel we cannot even stand it physically. in this gig;
which comes.
We have to 1.01: this fire go through uu, rethemiee
we will be ceneumcd by it.
We éould'oxplc'dé and die from this
acemumtion of fire. if we didn't lotit out.
When we try
.
.
I
to convey it and let it out. we feel it: does not satisfy uu


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
 
3108
WWW».
M. Chekhov
February 5.
19140
because everything in so rude and primitive;
Now here comes
another point - tho noeoeoity and possibility to improvise.
mum/Issue" a
_
~
The real nouroo And impuleo forW ie
tho necoeeity to aojehow let thin fire out.
“hon it it; no.
then tho'improviuation in really the improvioaﬂon - other-
vioo it
it: a very torturing oxoroino which wo one in many
schools.
The improyieution 1:21er its stunt again fronthe
m-..»
same point - fire: i1:13 have the magmmd than to tny to
incorporate it on (vastly no possible.
Fran the first
moment you will see that you cannot incorporate it as you
one it. and on you have to open all the doom and sand it
out.
All tho activity \10 have in our profession in
actually one big thing - you can start from the imagination
and you will finiuh with nouothing clue.
Actually the whole
method
it: one big thing. and when your soul will got the
fooling than: the method ie-o'na wholo thing, then you will
be an actor and a happy one.
But to get thie mwoloue fool-
ing of one thing. no huvo to examine each point separately.
Concontmto on your image with tromondoua inner
activity - keep it as long 218 you want and be ready at any
moment to got up and improvise.
or course. we have a certain
heeitation about showing things which are not ready - tho


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
ll"
(”-4
“ \“L \‘S
H. Chekhov
February 5.
19150
artistic conscience must be there. and it is one of the most
experienced teachers but still try not to contrast this
' cﬂneeienee. but help it ~ allow yourself to make mistakes
«-
if the conscience becomes not' an ndvarcary but an inquisitor.
1?: can become a bad thing.
Listen to it. always. but consider
it as a friend which will tell you when you are wrong but in
s differen’r. way.
when we are afraid of making mistakes. we hear from
our conscience only one thing.
"Wrong, wrong. wrong." but if
we are friends with our censeienee. we may hear,
“lying. but
that is all right."'
when we get 'thin ability to hear two
things fren our conscience. wo'hsve become friends with it
and that means to be free with it.
Let the conscience give
us suggestions and not punish us because if'we are afraid of
our conscience. we can become centraeted.
.
Try to improvise the following thing:
take the
theme into your imagination and lay the stress not so much on
incorporation. but try to let your fire out.
'i‘ry to get the
first lmderatsnding of what it means to have only 0. general
idea. perhaps witheu‘c details. and than plunge into this well
and do thingsright or wrong.
Exercisnl
It is a very small village or town in which the life
is somehow dull and espedi'ally for the young people.
Each
Saturday when they finish their work. they come to the dance.


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

 
, @138
12!. Chekhov
February 5. 19%
There are three or four famine/n {in the town who are very,
mobbinhw they never come to 12m; dance.
Tho 04:11am are
no-cdllcd low class and. therefore, very frho. and happy.
11:
it: damn Yv- ovorycnu '00 gay and up happy - now come the mhment
when qvorythlng becomes unbrigilod ~lu. pocond Info which
begins mix-1y in the morning.
It; in n. vcryhigh pitch -
o§cﬂthing has been said before 1‘- thoro is
a. curtain exhilara-
tion — a ‘bcautiful chaos. .workoru. farmorsfoorvuntu. etc.
Romenbor tho purpoao qr the exercise - fix-at have
thn image and. than lot it go'through you.
