

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
"TH“: 
 
A COLLECTION Of
‘I-Z..U-Ii; allu’ﬁixO‘WC
UNPUBLI
ON THE Al’s? G!
by Deirdre Hurst du Prey
 
 
 


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

'7" 1..
".47...
 
> w:
Copyright (D
by L‘eirdre ‘Eurst du Prey 1977


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

INTRODUCTION
The work
I Rﬁ“taunting for publication
a collection of unpublished notes and rznuscripts rcjgtin'
to the theatre career of .ichﬂeL Chekhov
- actar.
niructnl.
teacher
-
in iussia,
iuropc,
;nglanj. and ”marica
inrin:
first half
a:
this century.
Constantin Stanislavaky wrote to Rania ehskhov
in
1930,
in *he Eark days when richael Chekhov and his wife
mere
ﬁnirrgs
in :erlinx
"Be brave,
hopeful.
and prvscrve
tar
us
the {reﬁt artist and actor,
Mishu Chekhov."
It
is
in Ink
liﬁht of such an admonition from that
that
I hope
to help.
through the publication of
prcncrving the legacy left by the theatre jenius
‘hekhnv,
hafnre those
fnw persona who were intiwately
itk him havq n11 passnd away,
and
tun
evidence
F his
Aziquz gifts
is discersed or lost forever.
" extend
the undurstandina of nichaol Chekhov's
philoaoyhy concerning t.e theatre and the art of the ucﬁor.
X
havc transcribed shorthand notes of
Lectures.
lesvong,
nP
5
criticisms of rehearsals and gorforﬂances.
dcmonstn
classes,
interpretations of ﬁlays,
ideas
for orig
  
training courses for teachers, and classes for professim
actors.
These verbatim notes.
the baaln of my work
in progress.
Were
taken by me
from 1936-1052 when Chekhov WEE dirnator of
the Chekhov Theatre Jtudio
in
England and
in Anuricu,
and
1
sisn
m
was associated with him As student.
ﬁeacher. ﬁnd a


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

aninlavaky'a Symon, becauao at that time he wrote an article entitled
“Tho Problem 02 tho Actor, " which appeared in m, a Moscow pcﬂcdical
publiuhcd by Prolotcult. in which ho not ﬁrth tho lupcnanco of a avatar.) for
tho actcr'a training.
In Stnninlnvnlg'n Pmmm’; Euanrn Vnkhmrxr-cy,
Rouhon 312::‘ P1: quotas an article writwn by Vakhbancav in March, 1919. on-
titlod “To Tnoao Who Writo About tho Stanislavalq Syatca.“
in which ho criti-
clzoa Chokhov'a ammpt to "cover tho application of tho Bwnialavaky Mothcd
in three or {our pagoa of a magazine article."
In 1935 the Group 'l‘hcatm in
New York uanalatad an article by Michael Chekhov entitled "Staniniavulzi'a
Method of Acting. ' the data of which is given as 1922.
Although it in meme to do, it in invariant, for many maccno, no
nubatantiato just when Chekhov bacan to question certain aspects of Stanis—
lavalav'a Siam: in tho light of his own devolcpzcm and easements.
In his
autobiography, ﬂan ggh r3 an Act"? (an Nzﬂrm)
, mat publialmd in 1924, and
rcioaucd in 1926 by Academia, Leningrad, and translated into English at
Darling-Dan Hall in 1036, Chakhcv rofcm to certain of his mm ancrgfciaoa which
ho gave to his nmdoma in chokhm'a Studio during tho period from 1922-20
when he was directcr of tho Firm Studio of the Art mantra (which became in
1924 Lho Second Moscow Art Theatm) .
We Maggie]: hgiorégrigghtcd further
with thoao sumo excrement and principles in the theatre claaaoa which he con-
ducted in Latvia and Lithuania from 1931-36, and in Patiu with La 'l'héE‘m-o Tchokhoﬂ
in 1930-32.
Frequently re-scntea in his book,
these exercises were an
important
part
of
the
technique
he
taught students
in England
and
America.-
At ch: concluaion of his back. The Path cg ihn Actor, 1924, Chekhov mama:
I would like to nay a great deal about the relationship of tho
spcctatar and the actor, but (hit: topic will enter into the conmnta


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

0! another b:ei: of mine. eapecialiy dealing with the quoetione of
the theatre on much.
i speak a great deal 01 the new acting technique.
But do I have this
technique?
No, not yet.
Hero is the dividing line on which i new
atend and has: which I glance at my peat and my future.
1 on pro-
paring myselz for the acceptance of the future new technique;
l
await 55:! and long for it.
A few attenuate to reenter it have shown me its immeasurable depth
and value.
I loo): ahead with hope and faith.
inwardly l have
finiehczl with all that in old in the theatre, and I find it painfully
difficult to outlive rho remainder of the old and to struggle with
obstacles which stand in the way of tho new.
In reality. I have
not yet played a single part no it should be played, and ill were
aokcci which of my pane 1 consider the meat eucaeeoful, with all
sincerity I would have to reply. "The one which 1 have not yet acted.“
When vieiting Xenia Chekhov in Lea Angelou in 1969, we diecueecd the
question of when Chekhov firut began to work on a heel: concerned with hie ideas
for a technique of acting method.
Mra . Chekhov recalled that he had worked on
the book in Riga, Latvia, in 1933, and that in 1934, when he won producing,
acting, and teaching in Lithuania, he had given inntruetien in hie Method to a
group of actore there.
In America,
during
the summer -of 1935.
he once
again returned
to working
on
his
hook.
i
1
Mia: completing the initial Vernier: No. l
at DartinanAgnzi aubzitting it
to Dorothy and Leonard Elmhiret {or their opinion. Chekhov wao encouraged to
develop hia ideae in greater detail, in Vemion No. 2
.
He continued working
with me on the book after the Chekhov Theatre Studio began rho second phase of
iia life In Ridgafiold, Connecticut, in 1939.
At one point, Huzd Hatfield, one
oil the camber-e 0’} the Studio. aeeismd Chekhov in writing a chapter on speech,
but (he work wan not completed and was not included in the final form 01 :he
book.
4
In
1940,
Foul Marahell
Alien beganhie valuable work,


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
4.
collaborating with Chekhov. editing and <11va torn and armature to tho book.
Version Na. 3 won completed in 1942, with Paul Mumhull Allan and I wax-king
togothcr with E: Chekhov on this ﬁnal forn,vrhich became knavm an the
MM Vnrnlg.
5
Final conccucnu and lnnertlonu were made after ma Studio's
existence mm tormirmtcd and Chekhov damned far Hollywcad, taking typo-
wrltton ccaioa of tho muucaipz with him.
The 1942 yarnim oz tho bask wan submitted :2 novarnl thoulra authorities
and publishcm In NOT] York, name who: won Stanley P. Young, Editor of
Harcourt Brace.
Mr. Young was onthuuiuuuc about the work. and connidcrad
it a valuable contribution to theatre litcnmm.
However. he doubted that
any publlohcz could ccnsldc: prcducing it under pmvailinq war-um: condition.
Ho cauucmd agnlnoe changing tho tom tco much in order Lo achlovo a more
acme: Engunh tom, bcsauco ho fol: that Chokhuv'u inimitable descriptive
uuo of tho lunguaga mum bo nacrlﬂccd, and the unique character of the
work bo 1051.
6
Chekhov arm-rad tho mnuccdpz 1: to a numbcr of theatrical people in
Hollywood, but becauca c1 scan 01' the reactions ho received ho decided in
rewrite the 12ml: In Russian, ccnvinccd dint ln hin arm language he would ho
entirely rouponuiblo for no meaning.
"It will be my aonmmanz. " he wrote Lo
mo.
Adhering clouoly to the {am of tho Engliah tax: of the 1942 Vomlon. he
published the Ruaalun edition at his own expanse in 1345, distributing it to
public librarian and college and unlvomlty librarian Lhmughout vho counuy
where than: was a Slavonic dopummnt.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
5.
After this was accomplished, Chekhov decided. in 1946, to translate the
Russian version into English.
No translators. Jay Luydu and Sorqi Bertanﬁaon,
co-uuthom 02 a bicgrnphy of Sam! Rachmaninoff, wcm chaaan (c: the tank.
A nunkr ail chupzcra were unnulatcd and uubnittcd w publishers. withoui
auccaoa.
30:: chapter: wove nuhzittcd In ”moan-o Arts Books, me. , where
tho watt: not with a critical rocopﬂon, to judge be: the 10m: written to
Mr. Jay Loyd: by Mr. Robert Muccmcz, 1w edits.
Char-110v wan very discouraged by thin dovolomant.
He can: mo copioa
of the £21m: (nu: shaman 01 the translatinn. and i. in turn, shaved if. to tho
plum-mam, Arnold Sundcaard, wha had worked with Choldm on themes for
plays. and wan co-authcr with him of tho chiLdrcn'o play MuhIaHaI:n~Doublc—migq,
which was part of! tho remnant: of tho chunks-v Players.
Consequently
Susi 33:21 1130 Von; familiar with Chohhcv': Mylo.
We agreed that tho trans—
latiaa by Dayan and Bcrtcaaacn was not as dies: :2 an won-written an the
original 194?. Vngnlng .
Au madam turned out, xho canalawra. bemuao of
other combats, were unable to cons-glam tho mark.
Chokhsv hogan to work again upon (ha material concaimd in tho Ruaaian
edition of! tho 1042 Varninn. with Charles Leonard undcnaldng tho cdimial work.
Whan. in 1969, ! inquirml mm Mm . Chekhcv whaihcr the English X942 Vnrnion
had been uncd in this work, Charles Leonard advised he: that ho had never
scan tho English version, and that Chekhov and ho worked directly from xha
Ruaaian tom.
When I was in Damngton in 1961 , Dorothy and Leonard Elmhimt diacunsod
with ma tho pauaibility a! publishing the 1942 Vomich of Ta tho Actor. which they,


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

5.
and many others, considered a more comprehensive work than To the Actor:
On ihn i‘nchnimm 01 Acting.
publiahcd by timers in 1953.
It was dccidcd
not to try to do no at that time. bccauao of tho possibility
of encountering
copyright diﬁicultioa.
It in to be hoccd that 50:9 line in the future, this
remarkable war]: — revealing an it does many of M ichaol Cholzhov's most
original creative ideas —- will in published.
“° “"1““ m” 2‘3““ m
the boot whom. is 1946. no vaoco Go as about it:
"Dooha,
111:0 human
boinca. have their own casting.“
a
a
n
o
i
THE ACTOR l8 THE THPA'K‘J".
, BY DEIILDRE‘. HURST du PREV
Even greater than tho task of! marking on :ho bcal: was the task which
Chekhov assigned in no, that 01 taking verbatim shcnhand noma of all ma
lessons and lectures ho gava during the Hiddmm oi the Chekhov Theatre Studio,
fmn 1936-42.
Even as early no 1035. whilo ho was pcrfcming in New York
with tho Moscow Art Player-n, he gave lessons to Beatrice Straight and myself,
with tho help of Mmo.
: i Tamas Daylzamanm, who tranulatcd {or him, as
Chekhov know no English at. that limo.
It was then that he discovered ’my
ability to take shorthand notch. and ha recognized tho value of. such records
in relation to gathering material for his book.
When tho Chekhov Theatre Studio was being organized at Damngmn,
Chokhov's grasp a2 and concern is: ovary detail was astounding.
Beatrice
1
Straight and I worked closely with him and were assigned our separate tasks.
She was to handle pﬁiﬁésrixéﬁoﬁgifgcisgg : gli'ggk being done on the theatre,
the rehearsal room, ﬁre living quartarn, arc. , so that all would be ready fur
the students: while I was made Chokhav‘s personal secretary, and worked with


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
7.
him on selecting group scones. dialogues. neliloquioo. etc” from plays, to
be used in clean work.
This material wee taken from Shokespeago and other
greet writers, and Chekhov oven translated scenes with my help.
I was to
coke shorthand notes 0! all the leswne and lectures givcn by him. and late:
to work on his back. To the Actor, when he would make use or such recorded
materiel.
1 immediately began this letter task by recording the series of
10 Lessons to Teachers given by Chekhov fro: April to III!) 1935.
When the Studio opened on October 5. 1930. I began the work of taking
notes 02‘ every class. lecture, rohoumsl, recording everything that Chekhov
sold except vmon l was participating in the activities t1u::seives.
The prob-
lo: 02 transcribing and typing the notes was a greater one, because I was tek-
ing the full acting course, acting in scenes, directing etudont scenes, eseiet-
ing in teaching new students. and as one of the dimmers 02 the Studio
dealing with problean mneemine its artistic and ceeidl life. being meant
at auditions end all meeting!) involving alloy.
1 menace this as it gives an
idea of the degree oi dedication which Chekhov required of all who were associ-
ated in creating
"the theatre of the future." which he envisioned while working
both at Dortingten and at Ridqeﬂeld.
l was the only one permitted to take such
notee
, with the ozacoptien 02 my sister Phyllis Hurst, who Joined the Studio to
assist me during 1937, end again at another time when the Studio was in
Ridgoiield.
We worked together on the mnscritmn: of the notes, but the
memrial was considered my responsibility and heel to be worked on by me
as I had the necessary understanding of the subject, being at the same time
student and assistant to Chekhov.
Several volumes of notes resulted from this
close and fruitful collaboration.


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

All my shorthand notes relating to the emetic life of the Studio were re-
tained by me, together with the Calumet: oi transcribed material; although
while Chekhov was alive they did not seem very relevant, 1m: after his death
and with rho panning of time their importance became more evident.
Likewise,
my work on Chokhav's book, To the Acts-r, whilc'ﬁﬂicially ending with the
diebanding oi the Studio in 1942, went on for can time, and Cholmcv kept me
in touch with its development and with his idcaa until his death.
At Dettingtcn, Dorothy and Leonard Elmhirnt were eager to collect all the
existing material on the history of the Chekhov Theatre Studio, to add to the
material massed in the archives there.
Consequently. in 1961 I spent several
make at Dartington, going over the collection, asccrtaining the extent of the
material. and estimating what was missing which could be supplied (no: my
collection of the notes.
At that time 1 left at Dertingten c020 inpcmnt arch-
ival material, together with a set oi the twelve tape rcxrdinge oi lccturon
which Michael Chekhov cave in Hollywood shortly bafcre he died.
The plan
was let me to work on the err-transcribed name in my poecoeeion so that they
might be added to the existing collection and provide valuable primary source
material and the elements of a hintery of the Chekhov Theatre Studio both in
England and America, as unfortunately by this time the rcccrds of the Studio
had become lost, with the exception of those in my posceaeion and those at
Dartinaton.
This proved to be a formidable task until I won able to (me myself from
my teaching activities in 1971, and devote myself to transcribing these notes
which had never been touched, and checking and verifying those which had


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
boon tranucdbcd yours before.
All of this hm: ronulmd In tho prouont collection
of over 500 louncnn and lcctumo, mgoihcr with tho upmndhmd suppamng
material, to ba band in tho manuucdpt which I have called En Am; in tho Thantm,
this being a quocauon from one of Michael Chalmcv'n lcctumu. an wall as a
statement 01 hm b01102.
An far tho part 1 playcd In this aspect c1 Chalmsv'n struggle :3 no: forth in
wozdo hm Moon and thccrlou and :5 nautical technique fc: achieving the theatre
of the (mum which ho mum of. I role: In Chokhcv'o arm wczdu.
In a lunar
to mo, February 2!, 1946. ha man:
"My English In no had an always. and 1:
was only my unﬂdcnco Ln ycu -- that ycu vault! understand an - which gavﬁ
mo tho (made: to 0:320:10 1:me wimau: any m2: difﬁculuoa."
Am! 1:1th
that you, August 12m, 1945, In writing to tell no that tho Runntnn edition of
To um )1ch 11:11 bcca panama, he said: "Your name in in tho mecm, whom
you cm dozcztbcd an my halya- Ln manna tho ban: and an a qualiﬁed teacher
02 the Mob“: ."
To have bean chosen ta b3 a helps: to a grant mm
engaged
in a mm: of! much mxmnco lo a mvﬂcgo ccccxdcd to tow, and It in on: fer
which I hnvo always bean deeply gram.
My aucccluﬂan art! work with
Michael Chokhsv enriched onsmouoly my own Mo no arms: and masher.
- Doerm Hum: du Prey
