

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
Nichael Chekhov
(afternoon) Batch 11.
1938
Shdanoff Plag:
:ITho Posseseedjn
l
"
—{',
Nesting scene:
We will develop some atmosphere and objectives.
Imagine the pompous entrance of Verkhovenski and Nicholas,
after which the whole group feels itself uplifted in a very
heroic. revolutionary mood.
Each person feels that he is
absolutely necessary for the cause — that on his shoulders
lies the burden 4 that he is ready to sacrifice his life and
to follow the great leaders.
A very serious, very tense at-
mosphere of conspiracy in which heroes are sitting.
Nothing
ironical about it — absolutely serious.
No attention is
paid to the idealist.
The two Issuers are everything and
overyono is for himself.
everything - very strong "I am"
experience inside.
All these qualities are there at the
beginning of this scene.
After the spy's first speech you make certain at-
tempts to understand without being able to.
How he speaks
is a little strange to you.
Through tho whole scene tho
audience must feel that the group is more and more attrac-
ted to the spy.
so that at the end of his speech he and
they are really one being.
one body.
Great expectation is
in the air at the and of his soliloquy.
Tho idealist is the only person who pushes away
this atmosphere — he despises it - he wants to be alone —
to give a blow to the whole thing later on.
He does not


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
H. Chekhov
larch 11, 1938
want to be with them because he feels that everything is
wrong, and that especially the person of the spy is wrong.
Actually he is living in this big wave of impending "break-
ing of the form?
His tension is quite different — the more
the group is with the spy the more the idealist is sway from
him.
He makee the psychological space necessary to prepare
his blow.
‘
Nicholas is always seeking. trying to find out
whether a devil or an angel is behind what the spy care.
The
scene in on the basis of atmosphere — conspiracy.‘
The app
speaks so mechanically that they cannot understand what he
says.
Without stopping - like onJ big nothing.
Sometimes
Nicholas hears, sometimes he looks, sometimes he is not lis—
tening or looking but simply guessing it different things.
so that eonetimcs the audience must pay attention to him.
Once he makes a very clear gesture looking at the idealist.
The idealist gradually loses calm and poise and grows more
unable to bear the noise.
so that the moment the blow comes
the audience is already prepared.
The group begins with the atmosphere of active.
honest. heroic people, open and ready to receive, but gradu-
ally throughout-the spy's speech they close more and more.
When the spy sake for a pause, Eicholas feels what a fool.
and when the group sees that Nicholas is not interested in
them but only in the spy. the applause dies and they try to


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
M. Chekhov
Farah 11.
1938
find one another.
The spy never gives them time enough for
anything.
He fills the whol; room all the time and never
leaves an empty space.
when the theoretician is speaking the spy is rest—
less beoause he feels theiime is being lost whenever he is
not speaking.
He does not listen but is only frustrated.
It
is a great relief for the group when the theoretician speaks -
everybody gives him their attention in the hope that now they
will hear something. but when he mentions ten evenings or
study they begin to feel ashamed.
They appreciate the energt
and activity of the spy. although they are not quite sure
what it means.
so that when the aid theoretician begins to
speak. the more he speaks the more obsolete they feel he is.
Then they begin to wonder what the spy and the leader will
say - they begin to laugh and their laughter is painful
laughter. dreadful laughter.
The theoretician's whole life
is in his book}
Their laughter is an effort to eicuse him.
The spy does some small movements and noises so that the
audience will be aware of his presenoe.
Occasionally the old theoretieian looks at Nicholas
so that the audience gets the feeling that they see what
Nicholas is thihking about.
In Nicholas's face there is a
little Sign that perhaps he will laugh.
Therefore, the group
is already laughing.
He is quite shameless in the way he
sits.
From his behaviour and from the spy's behaviour. the


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
L. Chekhov
Harsh 11.
1938
group knows that it is a mistake for the theoretician to
speak and they want to stop the foolish old man, so they
laugh the second time in a more exaggerated way, because
their first laughter did not have the desired result.
They
become more and more serious and offended and angry, and at
the end they are all speaking at once.
This is all done for
the benefit of the leader. who pays no attention to them.
neither does the spy.
At the moment when the wave of protest
is rising. the idealist gets up and walks about and then sits
down again.
I
I
Recall the atmosphere at the beginning of this
scene.
one of great expectation. each member of the group is
really HERE the leader who has not yet arrived - only some
words are there - their spirits are with the coming leader.
The atmOSphere is stately. solemn. serious and heavy. al-
though happy.
when the leader appears. they applaud to the
point of ecstasy, than Nicholas eaye,
"Put a stop to this."
