

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
‘EAH
Michael Chekhov
August 18.‘ 1939
FmING OP TRUTH
THIS PSYCHOLOGICAL GESTURE
Piékvickl’ Edventures of Samuel Pickwick "25]
Shane III
M.
.
Follow the scene from tho polﬁt‘of View 02 tho'tru’chhvwm‘
and read the whola' scene only for tho puychologlcall content
in it.
Follow only tho-real psychological lino - the sincere
'1 and true thing in all that in required if you will, follow
lunardly the psychology
Intuitivoly.
. If you gnt' it once.
you will mfxdbratnndv that it inu‘n. vary alumni-hing; 5.1: in
muchmro difﬁcult‘ in) 11%: because the fuolmg 9: ammo ham to
Ibo punhod dim-221..
Tho oimpia. nincoro way in so' simple. hm: you
mum: bolicvg 1h “hand it in tho ‘baaia of everything for the
5020?:
FEELING 0F TRUTH:
.
start with this simple thing.
The director $1111 toll
you what hd wants you to changqnnd how to do it.
otherwise
you anticipate the dlro'gtor.
You mum: awaken in yourself the
desire to be truthful.
If this denim to be truthful in in
you. thou you can not. but if you have loaf: the desire to be
true and are contcn‘t with all of them: gﬂnacon. otc.. than
you have lost the way;
Dan“: critlcmo Stgurself. but only
awaken this desire to be truthful.
Train your ear to hear the:
truth - train your ear and your can). to love this truth.
You
'
must be true an min at: you can at this momeht. What manna


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
You
1-1. Chekhov
linguist 18, 1939
that even if you didn't know that it was Dickcnn end a comedy.
you couldn't make a tragiodielogue out of it.
It cannot be taken no pedentiéelly - everything
Whimust be taken into. conqidoratioh by your hum}; feeling of
.,...:,,.tx~uth. and by your artistic inntinct oveh boa-fern the director
tolls you the different objectives and tempo. 'otc.'- To a
I
cumin extent it it: always the truth in given circumo’cencoo.
end when you are over this limit. you are two and yet not
tme‘boceuue you should have in your ooul eoncthinguliko-a
ingrained.
a. madam of Dickcn'e humer.
I
THE peycnonoexmz, plasma.
The yuyehulogicnl gesture. simply'deueribed. 1a the
pain psychological lino exproeeed in a gesture which in for
the actor much more oxprooeivelantl convincing than if we tried
to describe it in so nenylworde or by'philoeephy.
Tho actor's
lenguegoi: that of goeturc. and it means nueh more.
Therefore.
our language in tho idcnleaoo is the poyphoiegicnl gesture.
In thin scene. Jinglo'o object‘ﬁo in.
“I mint to
persuade Tupmzn. although he in not ebloto understand very
easily.”
Tho condition in to fulfill the objective as quickly
you possible became you are in danger.
If you are true.
it
will remain true. and the director can than lead you.
If you
are always truthi’ul, this is tho condition uxidor which we can
use our language.
If the director given a certain intonation
/


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
L1. Chekhov
August 15,- 1939
or buoiueoe on the stage. and the actor deco it in a curtain
'uoy‘. the director will auk- him to juotiry thin pejeholegicelly.
Evei-ythina, the director given you will not be economically
repeated if you have developed the ability to juotgx hie
euggeotione.
Han easy it would be for the director if you
would only,follow the feeling of truth!
Take the ground of the feeling of truth.- this: in tho
quichoez my;
_Tho longest my in .to start from the outer
expreesion.
- You can only make thaoc' outer expreeeione more
‘ or loos polite. but this is not yet the art.
it in only mold-
ins certain trays which you have elaborated from your experience.
Art otur'to nor: the longinnﬁon and from a certain fooling of
her: beautiful in the part.
Don't jump over thin feeling for
the part. aha simply put on a wall: and drama andVetgfz-t to
opeah.
-'1‘he my I euggeot in much ‘eho‘rter. and if you will
elaborate everything through1:11?déhubit to be truthful. then
you will always be at your em diogooal. aim the director can
hold everything boeuuoo you will alwayo be truthful.
In the. Tupmn - Rachel scone. hie psychological
gesture in higher and higher and disappears there.
Rnchel'e
gesture in wider and hroodor. and oho dil'eupecuz-a there.
The
goeturo onde very high sud voi'y wide.» one sun wider and
higher. first in your imagination. then you can do it physically.
After Tupmn faintn. Rochol'e geoturo in one of centrac’cion
r
into Tupnan.
Jingle in frightened for himself and for her,


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
RH
._ the gesture.
In this scene Rnchel ti; on "M" gesture of
m. Chekhov
August 18. 1939
surrounded by people who are suspicious of his and of her.
Rachel's gesture in one of being absolutely in - disappearing -
and. then instantly out - with tips whole body.
When 1+. is in.
’sverything lie in. and when u: 1:: ouo. ouory‘ching is out.
Do
it in a quicker'tespo because the tempo changes the quixllty.
If the psychological gesture in properly done. it
will become a psychological thing. and the body will not become
tense,
‘ Our body besosou tense when we do 1101;. know what to do.
If we develop the ability'to really rely on t‘hoi‘psyehelogicul
gesture. we will not he tense hex-till only feel inwardly
this (gesture.
Jinglo's psychological gesture is to close Mosul:
with a "B" gesture.
You 11th try to experience the gesture
an fine as if it were music.
If you do it in different places
and in different tempos. it will (give you s differenﬁpsycho-
logy.
It is very inserts“ 1191 you explore the gesture.
Jingle can make the "B" gesture around his thighs and knees -
this will give his a. funny experience.
Find the obnmetur of
penetrating. hue it must be either toofhigh or away from him.
All these nuances! on the basis of the feeling of truth will
lend you.
While doing; the gesture. you must listen to what is
going on inside you, just as you would listen to music.
You
must not not the gesture. you must explore it.
If you act the


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

g3¥£m.
H. Chekhov
August; 18, 1939
gooturo, then you are not exploring. you are acting by the
wrong moons.
This exploring york in to does: your soul - to
act now to wrong. I,
.
You can oven allow yourself to 15.0 if youh'lvo tho
douIiz-oI to to true booauoo 315.th ﬁnd you "ill bucooo more and
mopoItruthfuIlI hoving thin: dooiro. no one willeminh you.
The fcolILng 'of trot); and moan-of” justify must be yooro
' n11 tho time.
‘If thooo grounds oro‘thozzo...tho'n the director
hao. com {:o land you. mitho my in whichhe wiohoo‘. ondI ”chat
' is all.
Don't copy what tho director oha.1o.'bujé Justin/I IitI
alvoyo on the Inuit: of tho fooling of truth.
YouI must ho
uoar'o of the my, and it will be thorn if you havo undorotood
the method Iond digested it.
Then we on]. have ourIporIrats at
“ “our «@6551.-
I'rhot So why £10 havo 1Izho school.
Sccnn ZII
Tho lovo occno hotuocn Tupmn and Rochol.
When
Taxman mints. Rachel plunger: into his being.
When Jingle
nppoora. RachoLdooo tho psychological gosturooi’ out and in.
Jinglo'u psychological gosturo in to catch and 1‘15: everything.
Jinglo taken tho “B"‘gooturo after Tupmn has gono army.
The
main thing in the gcoturo in to concohtroto everything to
himself.
Rachel tries to tear obotocloo in from of hot in o.
vary stucco-to way. with “K“ and
"_G" gooturco.
Later. Jingle
aim: has an “N" gesture so well on the “E? From "There you
r
are." Jinglo' o goaturo in one of pressing Rachel dorm to tho


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
NW.
:1. Chekhov
Miami: 18. 1939
earth.
From "He was going to start a. new life." Rnchol'u
gesture in qua, of resignation and humility.
She accepts her
doutlnyy.‘
She is crushed.
Scono II:
Earlier in the scene; Jingle bringn than. the Pick-
element). in from the main entrance.
They. ﬁre all tom to
pieces. unhappy and frightoricdn .Thay are concontg-atod on the
crowd in the street.
Their attention it: ubqelutely out of
the room. and Jingle mum: bring than to thuﬁBenson.
Every-
one loses their independence‘ontiroly and dependsuponjingle.
and they look upon him adj-n saviour. why-y dog‘nythingho
in order...Hc in always looking for what “co do with them.
When he cpcake hin words we feel that “he \Iholo street with
all its noise. comes with him.
He imagines .thnt the inxi in
his castle and that he in the host.
'
When the Pickwickimh onto:- the room. they dincuau
very actively whet has happened in the street.
M: the begin-
ning Jingle hat: a very different diqension.
He shoutu when
he cnﬁera and then gradually diminishes - he in an actor and
a person who loves shouting and effcete and showing tricks.
All the Pick-rickinnu are concentrated on Jingle. on hie cmry
actien and word. and’ gradually they become more and more quiet
and belonging to' Jingle.
They go dam while he {fees up.
, advises or ordern.- Jinglo trim: to bring the Efﬁetic
group
.
_
1


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
«ﬁﬂ,
.
VA‘U:
m. bhoknov,
.,
August 18'. 1939
Jinglo'u voice must be ubaolutoly from he must have a very
good form — Ii fooling‘of bounty qnd fem - ovary 50:1er in
a descriptive one - an abuolutoly ﬁﬁpor‘ior attitude.
In tho occno .botvoon .tho' Judge and Jingle. when the
Judge mentions Pickwick. Jingle @mo‘wdv'ho ‘13 in grant dungonm V”
he in dead with féar magdo'. but hé £6 rohdy for gnyfhing.
Ho ﬁrm the objective. "I want co escape."
