

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

michael Chekhov
October 28.
1937
Second Moscow Art Theatre
scow Art Theatre
lot
  
CONTACT
(ENSEMBLE):
Standing in a circle. take each other's hands
and establish contact, than separate from each other and
increase the feeling of contact because of the separation.
Then take hands again and feel the contact through each
other's hands. you must increase the contact psychologically.
Be quite relaxed physically and psychologically
during the exorcise.
Then find tho contact between two
groups.
Enlarge your group fooling poychologically so
that you are able to includo each other in one big circle,
and when you feel that you have found each other,
then
come together.
led by the fooling of contact and ensemble.
no free bodily and psychologically and take the exercises
in contact much more simply becauocit is simple.
You must
be free bodily and spiritually.
Lot us do another exercise with a ball.
Hithoutt
feeling ofcontact. all speaking on the stage is only an illu-
sion that we are on the stage.
You must find the contact by
giving the ball — or by giving the cue - on the stage.
It must
be rehearsed very consciously.
It is not simple to have a di-


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

N. Chekhov
October 28.
1937
alogue on the stage — if it is simple it is nothing.
It must
be given. and the words must be taken.
Do the exercise with the ball very consciously, then i
you will be able to do it subconsciously as an ability in your-2
nature.
Bo conscious of giving the ball. or the word,
or the
hand. and be conscious of taking it - ho conscious of the two
processes.
Now do it more quickly. but don‘t loss the contact.
Don't forget that we are a group and that everyone must take
part in the éano - we are all participants.
Add to the exer—
cise some words, for example.
"The ball,” and when accepting
it say.
“The ball."
You must receive it once and you must give
it once.
This must be felt on tho stage when speaking. moving -
in everything.
If I am lying down on the stage it means some-
thing; if I am getting up it means something: it must be some—
thing significant. otherwise thoro is nothing on the stage.
Now let the old students do the exercise with the
ball, establishing contact and using the words.
"throwing" and
“catching."
In our work we must be able to do.
to observe.
and to teach.
CENTER:
when the group is on the stage there is group feeling
and contact, but there is also always a center.
A well direc-
ted play is always one in which the audience is gathered to one
point then to another.
The director always knows where the at—
tention of the audience will be.
We must awaken this feeling
that the center of attention is walking about. but the whole


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

:4. Chekhov
October 28. 1937
crowd is participating in the process - the ball is the center
of the action.
To have this ability in our souls means to
exercise by means of simple things.
FEELING °Ergﬂghwg°§gé must add the feeling of the whole - the
rhythm of the whole movement.
It is interesting to awaken this
musical feeling.
If you break it. it must have meaning.
Such
a break nuet bc a great event. but if you wish to follow the
line dictated by tho previous action. and you want to bring in
new elements. then you must be in a psychological state to con-
tinue.
If you break, you break consciously. and that is quite
a different thing.
Everything must be included in the whole
rhythmical pattern.
You can vary these things as you like. but
you must have this gggling_gj_hg;zony - we will refer to this
later an rhvthm.
This is the action which walks over the stage
and on the stage.
You must be aware of the good and bad things,
but don't condcrn your efforts.
Be aware of the good and the
bad.
E:crcisc by throwing the bell across the room to one ano—
ther again.
Now let the new students do the same thing.
First
of all be aware of one another. then enlarge your being so that
you include in your circle everyone you liko. and then start
the exercise with the ball.
The idea in that you are working
together, but you are able to lead the attention of yourselves
and your audience everywhere you like.
When you are standing
as a group you have contact. and for actors it is necessary to


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

Ed. Chekhov
October 28.
1937
react to everything with one's whole body.
Those who are ob-
serving the working group must be working as well, not only
with their eyes but with their whole bodice.
Don't allow your "
bodies to be stiff.
Your bodies must be mm of this music
I
which you see and hear,
or you want to see and hear.
hamlet exerciser
You must regard the setting as a composition of
powers - the interplay of powers. an an expression of the whole.
For example. where is the strength of the whole - here or there?
which is the longer phrase in time - this or that?
This is a
continuation of the exercise in contact.
Harmony out of con-
tact.
Exercise by looking at what is being done.
We must do
the same thing inside. psychologically.
This is a general law -
to find the parts and bring them into balance.
We must be con»
stantly working inside.
One by one you will join the group on
the stage: through the exercise of contact you will adjust to
one another.
You will find out how to play, and new harmonies
will come out of the contact.
There is no director - you are
directing yourselves out of this fooling of contact.
Don't
forget to include everybody into your circle. then you will get
the real contact.
The contact must lead you to the means you must use
for expressing your ideas.
It means that you will choose as
a group the most interesting thing. through contact.
When the
director does it it means he leads you, but for this exercise


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

3!. Chekhov
October 28. 1937
you must find.
through tho group. the means which will lead
the whole scene.
To try to find this is already the meaning
of the exercise.
During the rehearsals the actor must alweys
give suggestions from within his being, then the director will-
V
find the possibility to give the mise en so‘eno or action to
the actor, because he knee/s what the actor ~wants! to do.
But
if the actor is only waiting for the director's suggestion,
the director becomes more wd more helpless.
In the Second Roscoe Art Theatre I tried an experi-
ment with three directors.1 I gave them a task by telling them.
you are three directors but there is a fourth one which exists
among you who will inspire you. so will you please produce
1%.
What was the result?
The result was that each day
they found something new and better.
Ono day one of the direc-
tors would suggest that they do such and such,
the second dir-
ector suggested something like that. ma the third. like that.
I gave them a. rule that they must not find the solution at once -
they must leave it.
Always they came the next day and what they
did included everything - it was more than the composition of
the three of them, it was something more.
And the next day they
got certain inspirations which embraced the whole thing. and
yet it was much higher than their sugestiono.
It is the same
principle with the ideal group of actors.
If we deveIOp so that
we can take sumeetions and not produce them at once - not ac-
cept then or deny them at once.


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

m. Chekhov
October 28. 1937
This ie the secret of being in constant interplay,
and when we are in contact with each other we will find new
means of expression each day. each moment. always new and al-
ways richer.
And from this point you will understand one thing“
which is very interesting.
The bad actor and tho good actor,
V for instance. both start in the same play. and they play both
very well.
' But in tho‘next performances the bad actor will
lose more and more, will get worse and worse. and will act with
more cliches. while the good actor will grow in his part, whe-
ther he acts nine hundred times. he will always find new in-
spiration and now pleasure in acting the part.
what is the sec-
ret?
The good actor is in contact with the whole play, whereas
others are not in contact.
It is possible to keep this con-
tact md he will always got new suggestions from his surroun-
dings.
But to develop this ability we must do such exercises
as this one we are doing with Hamlet.
FLYING ovn%h%%%g “Junta“ you find some moments. than the trans-
itions between the moments, and gradually the psychology, and
then it will become the scene.
These points can be changed at
any time. but as a method you must always have some sound basis.
In the Moscow Art Theatre we have always rehearsed in the wrong
way - we started with the first act, the first sentence.
so
that when we came to the last point we were quiet inside. and
had no interest for anything.
The method to fly over the whole
play keeps the group more alive. and with our imagination we


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

H. Chekhov
October 28,
1937
are able to envision the beginning and the end.
You can start
with something which seems to be the climax, and then when you
discover the real climax you can discard the old one.
All this
gives much freedom - you are not compelled to keep to your first?
vision.
'Continuo with the Hamlet scene:
it is possible for
an actor to expand his power over the wholo'stagc, or to com—
press it to a single point.
To ho a good actor means to have
the possibility cf making changes. but the bad actor will do
the some things one
evnning, and you will have no more crev-
ices in which to push your abilities.
We must have a settled
misc on scone, but we must leave places for each person to
.have new action.
Exercise:
Lake one large circle.
One person must include.
one
by one. ovary person into the circle.
Each person as he is
included must have some psychological reaction to this being
included.
Then all together run around. fall down. pause all
together, from the feeling of ganiggﬂ.
Remember the pause between Horatio and Hamlet?
It
was in very slow tempo.
This does not mean that the pause must
almayo be slow - not at all.
It can bo‘in a very increased
tempo. and with a light voice.
Everything is posBiblo.
You
can do it in a whisper or in a loud voice.
