

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
29‘59‘.
Michael Chekhov
October 2. 1939
THE CREATIVE IFAGINATIOH
THE INNER LIFE OF THE IMAGE
FAIRY TALE IMAGES.
THE ACTOR'S BODY
THE ACTOR'S SPIRITUAL CREATION
THE BODY AS THE ACTORS INSTRUMENT
STACGA‘I‘O‘AND LEGATO - EODILY
' PSYCHOLOGICAL LIOVEIITEWS
THE CEITER
IDLERUGTZO
TD TEACHERS
"
.
amle‘b
.
01:10:) for. Be innord‘_'
    
n ”(-1 N
THE CREATIVE IImGINA‘i'IO'i‘h
I will try to give you an idea of what no actually
mean by havlng firs-t; an Approach to our Hothod.
In our ochool
wo beliovo that tho bnuio and main impulse for creative work
is tho chin-hive imagination which must be dovolopcd conaciously.
and usually over a. fairly long period of time.
You :3th have
enough inner activity to cm; to youruolvoo that we have to work
upon the Method. upon the imagination, which means no have to
make oxoroiuen every day. without interruption.
If such exor-
ciseo take only five or ton minutes a day, it in bottor than
not to do than at all. or bojttor than if you work half an hour
today, and nothing tomorrow - it must be rhythmically repented
work.
‘
I
Evoryono has the ability to imagine; Va: A human being
each of us has the ability. whether we are artists or not.
We have the ability to imagine, but tho pouor of the imagina-
tion which we have in not enough for an artist. and especially
' for an actor.
It must be increased and developed to such an
extent. that the imagination will become a really great power
which can lead us in our creative work.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
 
H323.-
“an“..r
SP: 2'.
m. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
Why do I say lead us?
Bocauao tho usualjdnd of
imagination in nonothing which w_o_-10:1d, wo drag blag-ﬁnd nu.
no have it somehow in our weak handu.'
But an an artist. an
39116:. no have to gee quite a different”£ooling_.
We have
to (109610;) oun'mgmation to such an extant thst it will
lead us.-
Tho nigh-Antler) auctbo‘ so :i‘ltx-ong that tro have to
rm after it. not; dim: it behind us.‘
For; instance.
15‘ I am:
you to 11:9ng 3:16am a rod 'flouo'r. you Will have to unto
on effort and 'you ﬁny'find that you- cimnot got iho shape of
the flavor." or'fho intoxbufflor it.
Or if you ﬁnk; the effort.
you may goo that’cho flower is gone.‘ and humid yoo will con
soﬁotnmg :{om ﬁlcaoint; like a cup of tcal’ iron have to
fight with yum" imagination - that in who: we can. to be led
or to bo tmaaod by your imagination.
But thorn in another pounibiLty - a very strong};
donOpod imagination.‘ For instance. you,h:wo the tank 146
imagine tho rad flavor. and- tho.1nu‘i:ant you 36% 1211612131; you
bocomo interested in this flower.
Immediately you pm be
absorbed into '1:th picture.
You will 1100 a rcé flower and
nothing. more - you. \1111 one
11:11 uhnpo and you will one that
not only your mind'u ono noon thin flavor. but you will find
that all othoz- abilities you have are brought into activity.
You will fool thm: the rod color 10 unmothing which inspiroa
you to certain lactivity.mb1ch we can can ‘red activity.
If
tho' flower is blue. you will get a difforent feeling}.


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
00M
 
t1. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
‘THE wANER LIFE
01'“ THE IUAGEc
.
All your aenaosand inner abilities will be draw-n
into this kind of imginetien.
more than thie.
if you will
imagine some character -' let us any Hamlet - if you imagine
.hin. you will not only eeohin and not: he looks. but you will
be imedintoig'ablo to penotmteiinte Hamlet's inno: state.
and live in all his feelingn and thenghto.
You'wiil not only
have your images before yeer mind's eye as clearly ‘ne your mm
hand. but yeu’ﬁill be able to penetrate into the inne; 'life
of the character or 11:350.
moi-cover. you nili one that not
only do hue-an beings and characters which you have to imagine
have inner lifo - you will see that everything hm: inner life.
For inetuneo,‘ the chair. If you. no an artist. will 1:..ng
the» chair. at thin nonent yOu will get the feeling that thin
chair has a certain life which you. as an drtiet, cen and :1th
use.
I! it in in one position. it wiil have one kind of ex:—
preueiveneuo. and in another poei‘hion it will mean eenething
clue.
‘
There in nothing dam on the etago for the note:- who
has developed his imagination to ouch'un extent that the 131—
V
ginution leadu and lifts him.
That
it: the first thing to
learn about imagination.
FAIRY TALE IMAGES:
Exercise:


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

WM
 
 
2d. Chekhov
October 2 .
In our library you will-find books on fairy tuloa.
Please who coma of them and read than and choose one or two
passages and try to imginu everyday a little passage
tha‘fairy tale you have chosen.
Imagine it in the following
my:
Take throa or four lines and thqn imagine the first imago
that in described. than one him the image dooa uomothing m.-
otc.
Follow the auccosnion of' ovontdagain in the passage you
have chosen.
1939
from
what uonobody does with the image. or what new character appears.
To follow in youi- imagination mwﬁno to try to see
it with your mind's eye.
Try to pmotrzto into the lifd. and
try to ukoithiwpictuzfq max-p and morb clear to ypuroulf.
Try
tq imagine the procoso of. ovcnta and tho chamctom clearer
and clearer.
You“ can mike than more aha more complicated and
olabomtgd. but never be satisfied with thn aim-:10 repetition
of what you saw yesterday in your imagination.
This would
not develop the imagination. but in fact would really stop it.
Each effort to imgino something must be a new thing-
hzwo noon the red flower clnarly yuutorduy, today I 1:1th 800
IfI
it much clearer.
Alwyn a. new effort. a new Ettcnpt to can
the image clearer than buforo.
Exercise:
12 you have noticed that yonr imagination breuku and
becomes waakor and then stronger, of your attention is diutuz—bad,
that in actually the ground upon which we have to work.
\10
 
4mm; n.-


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

3.0FS
 
L1. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
have to acquire the ability to imgino no that the imagination
will not be broken. and get wanker and weaker, but rather
utro‘nger and stronger so that your irchs will not disappear
and change if you don't want then to be changed.
It in Just the Dune with parts in the theatre.
We
have seen actors with a very great and famous park like hamlet.
let us say. and they try Ito prepare it in a few weoxe “cine.
If a few lines in a simple fairy tale can give ouch content.
now can one dare to-tahe' Shakeupeore 11nd phenom it in five
make?
How impossible. hov' wrong and ei'ude and offenoive!
By ﬁxingkheuo efforts; foi- 01': least five minutes
every day you will E300 two things.
First of all. new for you
can get if youwill exercise.
I want iron to 1:00 this ideal
case where you will nioﬁor your arm imagination no53123071eg
that you will be like a magician in yourcan inner world.
 
Secondly. you have to pay attention to certain mistakes. which
you make. for example. your imagination, breaking it. heal,
satisfied with Dimple-repetition. and remembering your inngim-
tien of yesterday. when you have become law and. forgotten mo
ideal;
There will uluuya be two thingu — one thing leading
to the ideal. and another to all the possible mistaken.
So
pay attention to the mistaken much stronger than to the mis-
taken,
If you only pay attention 120 the mistaken.
it will be
disturbing to you” but if you will make a new effort to get
the ideal. you will be aware of the mistaken. which you are
likely to make.


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
t0%"
H. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
You must continuously mko thin inner offott to Doc
tho images and 11190 to bo Ethic to atop the imagination.
The
inner psychological muaolo by moons of which you can got tho
picture. koop it. and discard it.
Thoroforb. I ouggoot that
you do ~the oxorciuo in thin troy — start tho imagination. then
break it and diucard it. thcn‘otart it again for o. for: soc-
undo- start it. ‘utop it — not the whole and but no part or
thin exorcise.
THE AGTOR'S DDDY|
.
‘
-
~
Tho ideal no moot work for io to got 0. nor: fooling
for the whole body which \10 can dasczfibo on tho ifollowing:
"How glad I no true I have such u-mrvoloun. ‘flexibio thing
on no which I can my body.“
This pleasure in moving in tho
background for an artistic movement of tho body.
Thin plea-
sure can be awakened by ouch simple concentrated thinking on
I have mentioned to you.
(1)
\10 have our bodiea.
(2) We have
our bodies as inotrumonto.
(3)
We have plonouro in moving
our bodies.
Usually we fuel that our bodioo move us, but for tho
artiut it moat be quite difforont - the artiot must any to
himuoli‘.
"I ma moving my body."
In our uouul life we do not
distinguish very clearly between our bodies and ourselves.
which are ﬂitting in tho body.
We have our bodies on us like
an overcast which we can take off and put noide.
We will
nova): say that tho overcoat in no.
The body is not no - it
 


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
NP 9.
4mm. u,
m. ,M. ..
ma Chekhov
October 2. 1939
in something which I have and which I can move if I went to.
I can keep it quiet if I min-h to, I can move my hands it I
Hunt to.
THE Aaron's SPIRITUAL CREATION:
Iﬁin ceecnﬁinlly important for an urtietic conscienc-
neea to be able to dietinguieh between "I“ and “my body.“ then
we will get the right idea thee one body in only en instrmacnt
which we poseeee for conveying to our audience our motions.
foeﬂ‘énge. end idcee. and everything we have.
We mic going to
.W
chew to out- aﬁdiencenet only our Body. we are going to B11017
our egiritual creation} our idcae about Hamlet. Lear. or what-
evor the role in. by the meme ef our body.
I
The more you hill coneider your e.m body an it be—
longing to you. and not as you yeurnelf. the senior you will
be able to manage your body when you novef You can throw your
overcoat away becnuno you feel that ii: is at your Qieposal.
and. you peeeeee ie. bun very often we cannot do this with our
"NW
bodybecauee we think it ie"me."1£’ we confuse ourselves end
our bodice we cannot manage our body freely. but if. I have be-
come uncuetoucd to the idea. that l control my body. I will
feel superior to it. and then I will be free in all my novencnte -
physical and psychelegicel.
You will get a kind of freedom
which you will never acquire if you only develop your body an
eueh.
You must get the idea that "I take my body and move it.“


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

2093‘
 
u}
m. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
move your body with the idea thzit ”I on moving something
which I call my body.“
THE BODY AS THE ACTOR'S INSTRUMEITI
_
.
V
No ono‘oon one you. the real you. tho spirit. the
soul. tho psychology. the fooling.
We can only see the body.
You. no a supernatural being. give tho noosego to. tho outer
world in the form of the arm which you lift." If I‘donit‘movo
my om or give tho noooogo through my body. tho audience will
novor know what I wont 'to convey.
When you. onto:- the stage.
you nun? always have thin moloun fooling that "I canton.
not bocnuoo my body loads no on tho stage. but because I Bivo
you tho noo'cago that W spirit. my oupornntuml bednnovoo my
body ﬁorzardo you- so ohm: ”you have tho nooczgo that my spirit
’
is non on‘tho atogo."
If you rave this fooling you will got
oboolu’co freedom in moving your body in a certain fine. ax-
proooivo way.
This in tho firm: thing in learning how to
roan-cote our underotonoing of our, otm body - ro—imggjnoit;
'Thoro org two different kinds of uovooent which no
can produce — two oxtromo kinda of novouont.
one we still
otaccato novonont.
in which ourtgirit is going to use our
body in the extreme aha:9 form of staccato.
Tho othor extreme.
in which thorn in nothing sharp but in which everything £10210
softly and smoothly. in the form we can. legato.
If we can
mka perfect staccato and legato movements, we V111 be oblo
to move in botvloon those two extremes.
By exercising theoo


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
(NP/1
:4. Chekhov
October 2.. 1939
- 1:09 act/romeo v10 Acquire tho poooibility of uolng all the
gmdafciono ‘bo-hvoon tho two.
STACCATO AND LEGA'I‘O - BODILY PSYCHOLOGICAL IAOVEEESTSI
Exorcloou
Try to move your whole body in strong. ohm-p staccato.
Try to live in thio otoouphozjo no that you are completely
-
staccato - don"t lat your logo‘bo 'otaocato and your arm: log-
ato.‘
You hunt fix it without‘my meal-taint}! or wavering.
How mother‘ozhromo — absolutely logﬁto - like water - ouch
muoclo hunt fool that it in in the orooooo'of. flowing.
While
our bodioo “F” moving ofaccoto. coftoin ponoro in our body
make something legato in. i‘t. and this spoils tho movement.
rK'ho sumo io ‘cruo of legato movements.
\‘10 mot try to overcome
thin uihhitho definite desire to got one extreme and then tho
other.
Although wo my havoc uoo thooo We oitrouos on the
stage. wo must get; tho ability to: 93 oo.
.
The exercise in rozlly ooro psychological than
physical.
‘Do tho oxorcioo vary amply if: form. and ﬁll tho
"ombmidory" do psychologically.
First. Vvd hove our spiritual
values Emooaogtﬂ, which we have to convey to tho audichcc
through the mono or our bodioo. mind not our bodloo becauoo
they are not mtorooting.
Thoroi’oro. all our boqiﬁy exoroioco
hunt ho done an if they worn psychological oxeroioco.
This
in tho aim.
Now do the oxercioa only in your imagination fully


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
 
“SM
 
m. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
and strongly so that you have the picture of your mm inn-
, ginnry movemento in the ideal form.
Do it only psychologic-
any - in your imagination.
We: have our bodinu.
Try to appreciate. that \10,
invisible bqingn. have a vloiblo yart which no call our body.
What in tho ponitipn of our body in the world? Up and dam.
That means we are attached to the earth. as strongly as tho_
animals: are. but at tho capo than we are absolutely free iron
the egrtn in thompcf part of our body.,thcro£ora§,;£roo from
gravitation.
I‘m-r to abpracinto thntlthoro arc na' Other c'roa-
Lures. except human beings. who (17:9 abbixlutoly masters of the
earth and have the heavens at their disposal.
We must appro-
pli‘vtd this
5.1“ we mat to wage and go'from our bodies - we
can be very rough Izmd heavy and ran. down, and no can alga
fly up.
'
So, withpur paychology. thcuo two extreme can give
um great pgﬁmi‘blnthn 1n the ﬁxture - than we 'willtbo artists.
If no Hora" only flying over tho' earth. our art would not be
useful. bocnuag horauldi.
,Ltptflopulidad psychologically. and if
we wroro nnlmlxy, rm 'couiv‘.‘ not know am; art.
But we possess
thin ability to appreciate how nirvolouuly our bones are put
into tho universe. with them: two nxtremeu.
THE CENTER»
'Thln 10 the archetype of our body, and it is
vary easy to fool that the whole figure in
lad C
 


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
“P5?
HI. Chekhov
October 2. i939
somehow centralized with a center.
If you will try to listen
to thin centoi‘ in you. you will find it very soon - a certain
presence there.
Noe try to find the cantor in your chest -
this is the center from which ye'u actually move your arms and
hands.
when no~movc'thon from the 'ehouldo‘r only it is a dead
preeee
something in looking.
We cannot express certain
 
things if the ohouldere ore dead.
So the center 1%: important from two pointe of vim: -
if you will move the hende and arm: from thin center. all your
movements will become more oxproos'ivo and more full.
At the
came time it in psychologically importent - you will feel
yourself more oxpreeeive because your whole being. your one-
tiono and psychology which you have to convey to youroudience,
will really flow from your Joints.
Our éioints con be used to
express our ideas, ond,at the once timo,if they are not dev-
eloped. they can stop no from oxprcseing. our foolinge.~ Exer-
cieee all movements of your hands and area from this center.
Hon. having this center. try to move your body forﬁard - first
moving your center. and then your body must follow it.
Now.
how first your body and then the center.
By- mound" of such
‘ exerciuee you will get the ability to move very beautimlly
on the‘ (Hive. anghAge slucys essential for the. actor.
It is
a movable and flexible thing.
Just as your ammo and hands start from the center.
so do your logo.
Imagine that you walk from the center. like


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

VON.
. ,. .31“
1-. Chekhov
October 2.:h‘1939
a big pair of sclsaors.
.
If vd have Buch an ideal comyrohenulon of our body
‘and' Du}.- psychbloglcal being. this ideal composition-will rink!)
it much easier for no to 'act clumctor part0.
Imagine. for
indtanco; that you hhvo a. funny character part. ﬁnd for this
yaﬁhave 901‘pr movkﬁd tho center into your noun.
Immediately
y'oukviu got a certain ﬂmhy psychology.
All éuch things will
be Modlutuly at your disposal. and you will bocomo psycholog-
ically boﬁutlful'co that fho audience will say how strange
that yet; are so beadtiful.
The metal in that it in a psycho-
logical beauty. which is based on a. certain undomtunding of
your'body and udul.
ﬁlo violiniuﬁhas is baa-ﬁlm]. violin for
his instrunomz. bin. tho actor had nothing but his body ﬁnd
WM,
hm maul.
we mum: acquire the same fooling that 'tho violinist
or pidniut hauler his instrument;
We have. to evaluate our
 
own body in order} to do Ithlo.
Exorcism
The Actor'n lx'tlrchl
Try to keep ln mind all tho thingo we havo done this
morninghand try to incorporate thou while you are nil-china.
Always try to realize what it in no have done in thin lesson.
1
Make the effort to realize and incorpomto everything in tho
;
Actor's march.
1
Ono prlnizli’ile is very important - you must not write
1
down all_tho things which you will hear from our teachers but


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

 
o\ PS;
M. Chekhov
October 2. 1939
1511] Simply to romom‘bor thou because the thing which is written
down is forgotten. no try to remember rather than to write
dorm.
If you have forgotten something. wait until we come
back to tho sumo point or nuk'ubout it.
This is u very impor-
tant principlo in our work.
_Ycu x1111 mart your wori: on some sketches. during
which work you will got the points of our Method. and you will
try to opply then while you are rohcuroing thooo 81-2111 sketches
or scenes.
The oxorciooo will be donololao during the whole
time.
You nuot prepare "tho ukotchoo in accordance uith the
method. cothnt you will exorcise the various points.
You
must prepare your tooko.
Tho am one hot: to do with a fairy
tale.
Iragiho ovary day tho oomo pacoago of tho fairy tale.
ri‘ho second tool: in to think at icaot once a day, about all
thin bedily-poychclogicol work we have touched on in our loosen
today.
INSTRUCTIONS TO TEACHERS:
We will try to work with tho new students in exor—
ciocc. sketohoo, and tanks.
For instance. the tuck of imagin-
ing the fairy tale.
Or for one week you can give then the too):
of exercising the fooling of once.
But give it in the form
of a tank, so that you are sure that during tho weak they are
working on this or that exercise. and you must check on it at
the and of the weak.
Avoid the following thing - don't give
separate tasko - if one teacher gives a certain took, than all


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

 
 
H; Chekhov
October 2. 1939
of the students must do the same task.
Therefore, we will
, have a book in which we willykc'op note of tho tusku gmd
exorcioee and nkotchea so that when anothor teacher conoo.
no can one what has boon done.
'
I would suggest not to go too quickly with new
thingn.‘
Perhaps keep the utudcnﬁ:s on atnoopheroo and. object—
ivco on long no no can no that we will. doc that they got the
idea in a particular way. and for this pnrpooo I will give
 
the first class on each new po
.? But. for the present. ox~
mine on imagination. body exercises and sketches.
You can
aloe do improvisation bannim imagination. Begin by reapfing
or telling the some do tmt they will twine.
.I suggest that
‘ you divide the lemon between exerciser: mdokotchoo.
