

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

PMS.
//
/
Michael Chekhov
July 4.
1938
CUR METHOD
STAHISLAVSKY'S SEARCH FOR A METHOD
THE ACTDB'S SECOLD EATUEE
Stanislavoxy
CUE METHGDu
Criticism on improvisation on the ground of "ehift-
ing sender.
My inpreneion is that there in a great differ-
ence between what you have done tedey and what you did some
weeks ego.
I see that certain results are here.
but new I
went very much that you will understand the whole meaning of
theeo important oxercieea.A without this ability which we
are aiming at developing: without this ability for orientation.
whatever situation it ie. whatever partners we have. what-
ever stage of the rehearsal we are in, thin special kind of
ability of orientation makes you free.
Hhot is the difference between a young student and
an experienced actor?
not that the quality of the experienced
actor in higher than that of the student; often the student
has much more fire and einooreity, but the old actor will
always be much more attractive to the audience, because he
is able to orient himself.
This ability the old actor got
quite eieply. without any method or rules.
through hie exper-
ience because it was through life necessity.
If he is not
able to do thie he will be dieoerdod.
he has to find hie
orientation.
But in our school we try to go quite a different


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
id
(2.;
y;
M. Chekhov
July h, 1938
way.
We want to develop all these things which an experi-
enced actor gets from his inhexmenieus profession. on the
basis of a certain method and knowledge.
We must know what
we are doing; we must know what our ahnis.
We must come to
thie aim as a scientist comes to his aim. knowing certain
_
things and standing upon them.
If our school was a different
one; if we were doing just one sketch after another. without
any aim. it would be a method of floundering.
But we aim
at overcoming this cultural gap in the actor's life.
we
went to pursue our aim euito eensciouely, and this is to get
the ability for orientation in our art, by certain definite
peinte which belong to the realm of our Special profeseionel
knowledge.
Thie is Quint one.
The second point is. that in trying to get this
ability to overcome this usual floundering on the stage and
during rehearsals because we do not know how to catch the
subject. we are trying to get the knowledge about all the
points of our nethod which seem so simple — objective, center
of attention. psychological gesture.
etc. - all things which
we can have in our hands and which will give us this oriente-
tien. en the condition that we are able to manage all these
points in the quickest tempo.
We have to juggle them; only
then are we really able to develop this ability of orientation.
It must be instantly there.
now when we are doing our exercises on objectives
we sit quietly and take the objective and follow it and pre—


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
39;;
M. Chekhov
July b. 1938
pare it and do it.
This is absolutely necessary to etart
with, but the second stage is to take it instantly and choose
the right one, and it is there immediately.
For this aim
we have this exercise of forcing you to find which ie the
right one for your character. for the situation.
etc.
If
you have the ability to choeeo the right objective and pour
it into your body. then you are able to orient yourself.
STARISLAVSKY'S SEARCH FOR A METHOD:
I remember Stanisleveky'e method to educate him-
self.
When he was training himself to get this ability to
catch the right objective at the right time. he did the follow-
ing exercises.
He was walking along the boulevard of Keenan
and he was always choosing the place to sit near two or three
people.
Sitting and looking at them. he tried to gucee what
their ebjeetivee were. and then when he had decided what the
objective was he would go to thee and ask then what they
were speaking about.
In thie way he could prove and improve
himself in getting the ability to choose ebjeetivoe.
He could
choose the objective like a magician.
At once it was a
revelation because he wag a specialiet in this work.
This
in a very good example for explaining our attempt to do theeo
exercises; we muet be negicienn in catching the atmosphere
which is supposed to be here: te_ceteh the gesture.
etc.
The
technique is the meme - to train oureelveo by meeno of these
exereieee so that we are able to catch everything at once.


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
M. Chekhov
July h, 1938
The last point;
the ideal actor in our sense is
the one who. at the moment he crosses the threshold during
the rehearsal or the performance. feels psychologically hungry
if he is not filled quite instinctively and at once with the
gesture, with the objective,
etc.
By trying to do this ex-
ercise. we give ourselves this ability to feel ourselves on
the stage in quite a different way then in out everyday-life.
This is in full contradiction to the usual idea of the stage.
which is simply the more I am on the stage the more I am like
everyday life. and this is a certain nothing.
To be an
actor means to have two psychologies - one for one's private
life and one for the stage, and this stage psychology (the
other self) means to be filled instantly and instinctively
with everything.
{Stanislavsky tortured all the actors around him,
and he tortured himself even more than us.1 He was a very
difficult and strange teacher. and perhaps a very heartless
and merciless teacher, and he has perhaps not found the right
way for teaching. but because he was merciless to hinsolf and
to us we have a marvelous example of what it means to be
trained. really trained.
rot only to know something.
because
he knew his ﬂatbed absolutely, but he wanted to get it as his
second nature, and when have we seen this around him?
No
havojseen that when he entered the stage ~ we knew his move-
ments, and eyes and everything absolutely — and we have econ


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
“$539~
:5; Chekhov
July b. 1938
that ho was like a wild animal; he was chased by his own
hope to be filled by the points which he thoughtwerc right.
He was never satisfied with his acting. although he was a
marvelous actor.
he was hie own specimen, his awn victim.
his own patient.
We have seen this marvelous quality. and this is
what I want you to get.
Inetinctivelx he had not allowed
himself to enter the stage without having this eebond nature
which in in the objective. and the other points of the method.
He was filled with all of thoee points. and until he had done
this. until he felt that his whole nature was bursting with
those things. he could not rehearse. he could not act. and
this is the right attitude which we muet get to.
when we are satisfied with being half—filled with
the objective. half-radiating the atmosphere. half—guessing
the gesture.
we are on the wrong path because we are only
helf~creuters. half-actors, we are half-strong or half-weak.
and this is what we must overcome.
That is the reneon why
we'have our school;
to get something to the fullest extent.
This is so important. it must be like a thermometer if we
got the same feeling that Stanislavsky got: when evehything
is done for the part it must be inside you like a thermometer.
You must feel that you must do something to bring it to the
top withinfyeu.
This satisfaction with the half-way ie the
most weakening.
the meet treacherous for the actor.
I have seen Stanislavsky like an old lionxliko


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
NM.
Vol
M. Chekhov
July 5, l938
an old king;
he was crying like a child before us because
he could not stand this half-way,
because his nature was
through and through an artistic nature which requires always
a certain fullness.
The real artist will never be satisfied
with half~thincs. 'Whon he was crying and saying he was not
an actor. ho had a factory so why should he act,
he cannot
not.
etci
ote.
he was crying like a child — that was an
artist who requires everything or nothing.
We must get this ability through these particular
special exercises to awaken this feeling of the necessity
to be oriented, and for this aim this exercise in the most
beautiful which I know.
This training to got one thing
after another. consciously trying to 56$ it. follow it and
it will lead us in the shortest way to these two abilities
to feel whether everything has been done. or I want to leave
the stage and go to my factory, like Stanislavsky.
After
all this explanation you shouE actually got the desire to
do these exercises again and again,
and with full activity,
than it will bring us to the Stanislavsky result.
ACTGR'S SECQLD HATUREI
When this second~nuturo is really aroused. it in
on indescribably pleasure or delight which arisen.
when the
weight falls from your shoulders and you feel free and happy
While doing various points.
then you have really got tho thing
in your hands.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
41
p:
5 \u
A
m. Chekhov
July 4. 1938
The imagination can be applied to the whole scene;
each of us (gtanislavaky's manufacturing bucineso)1can imagine
the whole scene and we can uec this kind of imagining when
acting so as to have always a certain kind of inspiration
through our imagination as to what we have to do next.
Up
until now we have used imagination only in the following way;
no have tried to start with the imagination of the coming
scene.
or performance.
or character, and tho second stage
we have done.
but new I suggest that we do both.
Imagine
the thing and then do it. and we can uso another thing; you
may be asked to continue to act on the basin of the imagination
which is always there beforo your mind‘e eye, as a continuous
thing and not as a separate prepared thing.
There arc two
varieties of the imagination and we must choose one or tho
other. and then work upon it.
All our exercises are actually one big thing. but
we have taken them separately as different points because we
are training ourselves.
There seems to be a great improve-
ment in tho sconce whichluo saw a month ago.
There is certain-
ly improvement and you mﬁéi know this but also you must know
that there is success.
but that there is also room for other
things.
But please try to avoid the illusion that we have
group feeling.
Actually we have not got it or only half-
got it.
This illusion makes us happy in the wrong way, and
this was tho-_oint at which Stanislavsky cried - he did not
allow himeclf“to live in illusion.
