

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
October 7. 1937
ATKJOSPHERE \
THE FEELINGS
THE INSPIRER
IMPROVISATION
SHAKESPl-“ARE
- WITxT‘TNSION OF TH‘TM‘ES
Romeo & Juliet
Hamlet
Alexander moissi
ATHOSPHERE:
Hey Students:
The scene is one in which n group of people is wait-
ing for the appearance of a very high personage; very formal;
great expectation.
It is very important. and that is why you
are here.
Take everything from tho atmosphere — play with it
as with balls, like a jugglor.
This is a tremendous power
which we must develop through our exercises. in order to fill
tho space with the atmosphere which we want,
even in the biggest
theatres.
Another scene is in a dive whore the thieves are hav-
ing a gay time.
The polico ontor. and then leave.
The atmos-
pheres are»
1. Gay. without any roacrvo. unbridled.
2. Veny
tense.
3. This will grow out of the two other atmospheres.
THE FEELINGS:
01d Students:
In doing this feeling exercise, the reason we do not
move is because it gives us the possibility to understand what
it means to act only psychologically.
After we get this good
habit we will see how the ability to move will come. and the
mise en scone,
etc.
So many things will come but they must be


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

. Chekhov
October 7. 1937
on the ground of this psychological skilfullness.
Dalladiga:
Cr't cism:
The scene between Balladina and tho Saint was done
more or less skilfully and technically. but the feelings were
weak.
we, the audience. were quite cool because the feelings
wore not strong enough.
The way to establish this would be
to have a psychological gesture. or contact. or atmosphere;
all these things are the ground which we show our inspiror.
and without this inspiration we are quite empty.
Repeat the exercise and establish more carefully a
more conscious approach to the problem of a certain gesture,
certain atmosphere,
etc.. and by showing such things you will
get this other thing.
This is a technique which takes many
years to get. but it is worth it.
I knew an actor who tried to get something similar
to this new technique. and he acted a part which he prepared
in this new way with an actor who was very materialistic. and
a member of the theatre of today.
This second actor told the
first actor that he liked his acting tremendously, but he hated
him at the same time because he showed a person who was full
of feelings. but was without bones, and he wanted flesh and
blood and earth on the stage.
This is just what we most aim
to get rid of with our Method.
These are two different ap-
proaches,
two different ways;
one is down into the earth, and
the other is up.
We are, of course, going up because there


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

:31. Chekhov
October 7,
193?
are unlimited possibilities. while the other way holds only
limited possibilities.
That\19 why so mny people hate fairy
tales. because of this fear of the endlessnoss in them.
" _
‘
_ Nov? you must show your ingirar not only your psyCh0-'-
logical gesture, atmosphere.
etc., but concrete misc en se‘ene.
Say to your inepirer,
"I am standing here as a strange figure."
or "I am coming nearer and nearer," or "I am standing alone." -
this is something for your lnspirer.
You will see how, with
time.
our standard will be higher and higher.
Let us remember
the picture of the angel standing on the mountain.
This is one
half of the process.
We have to she-.7 our inspire): everything,
and theniheiwi'll answer, and the second part of the process is
to stand on the stage. to walk.
to have a spot light from here
or there. to have such a nose, or such eyes.
etc.
Z-Nerything
is important. small or large - this is our food on the stage.
we may become inspired because of a new costume, and if we are
really inspired by such things unconsciously. we can do it con-
sciously.
Instead of becoming inspired by the costume sometimes
and sometimes not.
it must be in our hands, and thereby we are
able to find the right settings. gestures.
everything.
Because
it is more harmonious. our inopirer will work at once.
You must anticipate things whieh you are going to show
your inspirer - even tempo.
You start your scene slowly, but
you know that in a few minutes you will be alive and full of
fire.
Werything will be all right because you Smow beforehand.


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

l. Chekhov
October 7. 1937
and you have shown your inspirer what you are ascending or as-
piring to.
It is so important to be conscious of all these things!-
they are conscious and subconscious always.
If you will think
back on your previous experience as actors. you will seo how
many things you have done quite instinctively in the right way,
which we now know how to do consciously.
-
In Balladina, both Alina and Ballndina must try to
assume the technique of allowing the feelings to flow through.
Always start with some ground. something very definite and con-
scious.
He must hear and understand, not with our heads, but
with our whole being.
In the improvisation for tho Faigx Tale, you were
not able to take the problem. the theme, deeply enough.
This
is a very good experience:
it is torturing. but it is good for
us because we will get some good results.
IMPROVISAqu? is try another improvisation - a very abstract
one — but we must go through those corridors.
The theme is a
legend, but more abstract.
There are three kinds of beings;
one is very high. the next is lower, and the third is the low—
ost of the three. but thoy are all of very high standing.
They
have decided that they want to create a lot of new beings, and
to the highest level of these beings they give the whole idea
of the creative process.
These beings take the whole plan of
creation and elaborate it, and in this elaborated form they


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

M. Chekhov
October 7. 193?
come to the third level.
The third level beings take this
elaborated plan and elaborate it with many. many details, and
from these details they create some new beings.
Hhen these
new beings are created they begin to exist more and more. and
then life occurs and the beings disappear into the height.
This is a whole abstract story which we must incorporate.
The highest level beings give one very expressive
psychological gesture-to the beings who are standing lower.
and they must take this concrete gesture. develop it and after
developing it they decide to legin the process of improvisation.
and the beings disappear.
The mise-en seene will be given, and
each group of beings must find some gesture which they are go-
ing to give to the lower standing ones.
They must find it with
their ensemble feeling. and it must be elaborated so that we
see the theme inla more complicated way.
We must find each
other so that it will be one great symphony of gestures.
At
the moment when these beings begin to exist it must be quite
clear to the audience that this is the moment when life begins.
What the lower standing beings do, after the gesture is given
to the next group. depends upon the improvisation. but it must
be clear that it is given.
The theme is very interesting for
gestures.
It is necessary for us to do such an exercise. be-
cause it gives certain things to our actor's souls.
You must
wait, but the whole picture must live.
When they give it to


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

n. Chekhov
October 7,
193?
you then you will take it as the second group.
Then you must
decide to {Title it. and the 1:3ch group will take it.
One event
must take place after another; when the one group gives, then
the other must take.
Each group must find the same gesture
together - it must be found in unison.
SHAKESPEARE: _isD1;:ngﬁglgxggi‘t’loﬂgﬁa:vlith themes which are human
and psychological - we must have a feeling for symbols, as it
were.
An invisible child is born out of longing.
It must mean
something for an actor. otherwise he is only half a being.
Why
is Shakespeare so dull on the present stage?
For instance,
when Iago speaks about his reputation, he spanks like a shop—
koeper.
Is this Shakespeare?
ﬂavor!
It is a shame to speak
Shakespeare hem the standpoint of a shopkeeper.
Each actor
must have something on a higher dimension.
Even for Shakes-
poare. each small fairy tale requires that we are friends with
some symbols.
Romeo and Juliet is not possible to act with the
feeling of everyday life. such as we have seen in a recent pro-
duction in London.
Everywhere it is the same.
when Romeo with
his love and passion acts in this everyday human way,
it is a
great gimme.
And they don't know that this is wrong!
They
think it is Romeo, and the audience looks and hears Shakespeare's
beautiful words. but what they do with it is dreadful.
We must find the way to listen for poetry which is
real poetry. which belongs to a higher world.
It does not mat-
ter whether we are religious or not, but as actors, as profes—


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

'4. Chekhov
October 7.
193?
sional persons, we must Emow‘yhat the ghost or spirit of Ham-
let's father means.
Once in Moscow I saw such a fat man with a cough,
who walked across the stage being quite sure that he was the
ghost. very busy with his cough!
Later when I saw Lioissi
[Alexander Liolssi] acting I ran away because I was so ill from
what I saw - but he ran away when I was acting, although in
our private life we were {good friends.
As profossional people
we must appreciate the exercises we have done today. in spite
of the question as to whether it is religious or not. but as
professional people.
