

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
 
{\
riohacl Chekhov
October 6,
1937
IE’AG lin 1034
INCORPORATION
COXTAGT
THE FEELINGS
THE INSPIRER
CONCE:
RRTIOH:
Review of Exercises:
new Students:
Concentrate on tho sounds which come from one side.
Then concentrate on a black flower which you see in your ima-
gination.
Then on a spot on the flower.
The whole process of
concentration: be aware when you leave the object of your con-
cantratlon: be aware of the difference between being concen-
trated and not being concentrated.
There is one very important difference between right
and wrong concentration from the actor's point of View.
The
wrong kind is when it makes our brain tired. when there is great
tension in the brow and the nook. tension anywhere is what we
have to avoid.
Our brain must be quite free; we must use our
whole body.
Our kind of concentration must embrace our whole
being.
our will which lives in our legs and arms primarily -
this is the region of our gig; in spite of all scientific state-
ments to the contrary.
The region of our feelings embraces
our lungs and heart, and the region of our intellect — which is
so useful for everything but so useless for our special actor's
art - embraces the head.
Our being is psychologically verb tangible and mov-
able, and the poor small thing which we bear with us, our body,


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

m. Chekhov
October 6.
1937
is for our actor's artistic psychology. quito unimportant.
Therefore, to bo concentratcd\in our sense means to appeal to
the will in our legs and arms.
to our hearts and lungs. and
very little to the intellect.
To be concentrated means to use
quite different parts of our body.
when you concentrate with
the head. try to understand what is going on with you.
If you
really concentrate with the brain you will feel at once that
other parts of your being gradually die. and you are helpless.
I
As actors we need first of all our bodies. which must
be full of life.
When you take the objective you do it with
your whole body and whole boing, and the some is true with con-
centration.
When you send out your gill to the object you must
take in everything which is in and around you.
To take it with
your invisible hands moons also to send out this something.
You will not be able to act on tho stage if you arc tense in
your brain, but only if you are free in all parts of your being.
Repeat the exercise of concentrating on the spot on
the flower.
If you are able to concentrate with your whole be—
ing you will get a very interesting thing.
You will become
stronger and stronger psychologically after each effort to con-
centrate with your whole being.
You will feel full of activity
after such concentration. and you will be awakened in one min-
uto.
in thirty seconds. with such concentration.
It awakens
some real abilities. some actor's abilities inside you, whereas
if you are concentrated with your brain you will feel that you


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

i=1. Chekhov
October 6, 1937
have awakened a certain kind of activity. but
a. special one.
Our being must be more harmonious, more rich, more pm-Iorful,
and we must have the ability to control our spirit, our will,
our feelings from inside.
HOV EHElT l
Concentrate on the center in your-chest.
Imagine
that your arms and logo start from your center.
Have your arms
from this center; your arms will feel very. very long. and the
some with your logo - they are very long, like scissors.
In
time this will give you a fine kind of beauty.
Send out your
activity in your amn and logo from tho center.
Practice doing
this during the day.
III‘AGIHATION I
Your whole being must ho concentrated on the image
you have to create.
Imagination
is: a process of creation and
concentration at the same time.
When imagining something and
creating some images, we must use our full powers of concen-
tration.
Now imagine an old human figure, dressed in black
with a long stick in his or her hand.
This old figure, swathed
in black. takes a few steps and then falls dos-m.
IICCORPORATIOX-I I
Now incorporate the image you have seen.
Be very
faithful to what you have seen in your imagination.
It is one


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

ii. Chekhov
October 6, 1937
thing to be inspired, but without an image. without concentra-
tion, you don't know what you\aro doing.
But our exercise is
for incorporating vary exactly. without any additions.
You
must be sure that you do what you have seen in your imagination.‘
If you find that your body disturbs you when fulfilling the ox-
orcioe. do it many times.
ihny unexpected things will disturb
or help you. but the purpose of the exercise‘is to incorporate
exactly what you have seen in your imagination.
The imagination is much richer than we think; we are
not able to catch the images which are conetantly arising in
our imagination and paeeing through.
We must develop the abil-
ity not only to catch these images. but to govern them: the
ability to as it were swallow then in our actor's being. and
incorporate them.
Through these two abilities to be able to
catch images and manage them,wo will develop the power of the
imagination itself.
If we are able to do what we imagine,
through this doing we increase the power of our imagination;
by incorporating we increase the image.
CONTACT:
Please form two groups.
Imagine there is a big cir—
cle on the floor.
You cannot enter the circle but must alwayo
move on the periphery.
One group must influence the other.
The groups can move around tho circle as they like. but the
place of each group on the circle will be affected by it.
The


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

M. Chekhov
October 6. 1937
two leaders must be in the closest connection to each other!
not only the kind of movements, but the theme which you have
to express must be corresponding to each other.
Each of the
leaders must take into his soul everybody belonging to his
group.
First establish tho groups.
Such invisible gestures
are as concrete as visible gestures, and oven more so.
A cer-
tain amount of human warmth must bo given from one to the other.
Without it. all our effortn will be only an illusion.
Have full
confidence in your leaders. than they will be free to croato
anything they like.
Next. one group with a leader must make a harmoni-
ous composition, and the other group will watch and "read" what
is being done and will then "reply" to it.
THE FEELINGS I
Don't suffer about this thing; don't take the sketches
from the point of view of the performance, but merely as material
for exercising. and you will fuel at once that the weight has
dropped from you.
Let us take as an example The Fishing Scone.
First, open your hearts to each other and to the world of the
feelings - this is the same thing.


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

M. Chekhov
October 6. 1937
THE INSPIRER:
Before I knew about these personal and impersonal
feelings,
I had always seen my audience standing high on a
mountain as it were, and I had the idea that nw audience could I
be an angel.
When I got this idea I got such pleasure, and
the audience became my insniror:
it gave me everything: it
inspired no.1 Such imagination gives concrete help to the ac-
tor.
Later I lost this imagination, but while I had it I had
no fear before the audience — the fear which consciously and
unconsciously makes so many constrictions in the actor.
The suggestion to open your heart towards your audi-
ence means something concrete for the actor.
We need some on-
gels, whether we want them or not.
In our art it is most im-
portant to have some angel to when we can appeal. and who in-
spires us and makes us free from these bonds.
Try to open your
hearts to somebody or something you like.
It will give you
some freedom to let the feelings go through you.
Establish the
contact with something.
You must have very strong feelings;
angels have very strong feelings, they have fire and power and
they envelope you with fire and strong feelings.
Our nature
weakens everything.
Appeal to your imagination. concentrate with your
full powers because the angel only rives inspiration if the
human being is worthy.
For example.
if we have the ground of
atmosphere.
or objective.
or an image.
then we will get it.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

iﬁ. Chekhov
October 6. 193?
The feelings: that fly around ‘in the world are very strong -
they are flying on colors.
If we want to join these colors
and those feelings, then we will cut the real power of expres-
sion.
You have to give tho ground for the angel.
Today the
atmosphere was not shovm clearly enough to the angel.
Every-
thing was too weak. therefore. too personal.
Perhaps the angel
is ready to come. but perhaps our hands are -too weak to receive
it.
Begin again by imagining some things and turn them
into the atmosphere and show them to the angel.
Gradually you
will begin to experience one very important thing.
You must
not be contracted in your body or your psychology.
when you
are contmctod tho angel is not able to go through this.
It
is lack of faith in the angel.
It is hotter to act and speak
badly than to be contracted.
Allow youroolf to be lost and
helpless but don't become contractud ~ it is better to suffer
the feeling of being lost as an actor, because it will como if
you are really brave enough - this beautiful ability to be on
the stage and only let tho things come through you.
when you
are playing a. character which is contracted it is the same -
you must not be personal but must give the impression of con—
traction and tenolon.
I know an actress suho was once so con-
tracted that she broke a wine glass in her hand.
How can such
a person hope to get any inspiration?
with our exercises we
are trying to make everything free. and we have reached some-


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

.‘fl. Chekhov
October 6' 1937
thing-
\
You must be able to sit in a chair without moving,
and believe that you are pulling a rope. for instance, without
doing it.
You have the full impression that you are doing it.
.‘
If you must have real movements and situations,
this is a cer-
tain kind of contraction and delusion which you must escape.
This is the same question as closing your eyes in order to
avoid seeing things around you.
This is the some process as
when you first try to meditate. you get tension in the neck
and head.
But you must make it free. and after many efforts
you will be able to collect things you want. being absolutely
free.
The some is true when you are acting - you must not
become tense.
When I was very young I could not overcome this
tension although I felt that it was wrong.
I tried to pray
for ten minutes before the performance. but immediately I went
on the stage I was tense again.
But it is much simpler for
us - we must only exercise and be brave enough.
