

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

HEX
 
7‘ '2‘?- 2‘
Michael Chekhov
August, 1939
DXSCUSBION BETWEEN MICHAEL CHEKHOV
AND DOROTHY ELMHIRST
”WHAT IS THE ROLE OF THE THEATRE IN LlFE? "
August, l939
DOEOTHY BLMHIRST:
what in the role of the theatre in life?
What do you
fool met great role in?
You once): of three main purposes.
MICHAEL CEEKHOV:
About the meaning of the theatre
-
I mini: it has a social
meaning. nothing personal or individual.
it it does not nerve a social purpose,
it in a great illusion.
Many eaten: think they come to the thence to: their own
purposes, and it in like the: almost everywhere.
if you 0:31: ccdem actors why
ihoy are on the stage, they will answer, "To act."
Thie in a point of View
which i cannot accept in my life at all.
Another great mistake in in our iife today.
when we think of aeciei work
and nocial ways 01 thinking, we mean
- or the majority 01 no mean -
that,
first of all. it is absolutely political.
ﬁnd ii it is no: political, men 1: becomes
very individual and very private, which is nine quite wrong.
Reel social con-
sciouunese means {0 do whatever work we do. having in mind our usefulneee to
eeciety.
And this in the main thing- which makes social pmblemn in modern life
.80 difiieult.
Many people make the niuiulce of paying lose and lean attention
to :hoir real profession and to the abilities which they are granted by God.
They look more into Lhe political life and, being umeteum, they open the politics
under the impression that they do social work. and they spoil their gifts because .mey


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
dim
iv 3"} C
Michael Chekhov
August, 1939
do not appreciate than in xoiution to casual work.
DOROTHY EIMHIRS'E:
I rcmumbcr you said that one of tho functicno of the
theatre was to prophesy.
MICHAEL CHEKHOV:
I thin): thcro are many branches in the memo from thin
scam! paint 02 VIQU, and one 02 those hmohou in to pmhony tho mum.
Whether it in in tho aciontiﬂc, panting], or roliginun 1150. theme? it in,
the theatre can have ouch a grant paws: to nephew.
But in: thin aim, oz
ccurao. actors must be mere ccnzcmcd with their own profusion than they
mm mm.
Ono of tho inhuman x-mich tho mauve can prophesy requires certain
cape: understanding at! tha 1:20}:le oi our present life.
This deeper undu—
atanding cf the mutant cement c: opcch rmuima. ﬁrst of all, to shut ona'o
ova entirely ta ﬁns paiiticain Epoiiiicinmﬂand than tho brain can bccoma iron.
Those phantoms which wail: on the earth as politician {9311an make way-
ono blind.
What mac: says has a meaning cc: us. but tho whole wand in under
an illunion about what Him says.
We cannot speak of prophecy hen the
stage unions m and tho 3::an cf thought — that means nut to be afraid of
Hincz'a snacking c: to connidsr him an a prophet.
Ii “—3 21m (3an enough inta'axdiy to laugh at Hick}: - somotimoa laughter.
\vhon‘minga scan to be serious. opens tho don: - if we can wally laugh at
Hitler. we can undomtun‘d without him mubh mam than tho moat clover politician-m
can boaausu they who him to: seriously.
For instance, Hitler huu had'so many
possibilities and cppcrtunitiau to nturt the war. but ho daos not start it.
Every-


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
A”):
Michael Chekhov
Amount. 1939
one says that he is going to. but why didn't he start before?
This in tho hypnotism
and the illusion which molten us narrow-minded.
But an the political world is
under the impression oi Hitler‘e unlimited power, so the world around him forces
him to start the war.
This is the danger.
The world around us is no frightened .
that. we are making him and not he himself.
The mission of the theatre is a
social miseion, but with tree minds and free braina, without all those illusions
and hypnotiem under which we live now.
DOROTHY ELMHIRST:
The theatre should not be led away by current problems?
MICHAEL CHEKHOV:
In the long view, there are two kinds of thought.
Humanity of the present day hardly thinks of tomorrow.
We are very much con-
corned with today and tonight and then stop, but we never think of the epoch
actually .
We never place Hitler in the bio space of history and time.
If we
would do this with a long View, we would get immediately another impression of
those creaturoa.
This is the disease of our age. that we are short-thinking.
Each thought becomes immediately a different one, when we are trying to place
it in bigger cease and time.
Thin is what we are lacking.
It in so difficult
to speak about the ideal aim of the theatre because we are no narrow-minded.
We can spool: only of the ideal of the theatre in such vague. abstract terms,
because our brain in not able to receive these conceptions of the bigger point of
view.
This is the only point of view as a social factor.
I! we really try to get the idea of the theatre as a social factor, we should
forget ourselvon on the stage and think, rather, of the many people there before
us.
But we are so frightened before the audience: we cringe before the audience. w:


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
 
Pe:
M. Chekhov
Auguetf 193.81
smile and about. but we are cringing before the audience instead of asking our-
selves what we can give our audience as part of our social life.
This we can do
if we realize that the audience in before um, and not we before the audience.
If we really consider for a moment that there is in our brain and heart and
being thin instrument, thin organ which can receive the life gram the social point
of view, in the real sense, then we will see immediately that the miaeion of the
theatre can he, first of all, to show the bed and wrong sides of our social life.
We must open our own eyes and help to open the eyes of the audience, to, see
some things which now seem quite natural.
For instance. no men}! people are
being killed and burned and destroyed in concentration camps .
, We read about
it in the newspaper quite quietly -
it means) nothing to us .
We lmowilﬁ.
‘
The Iowa are being oppressed.
We read about it, we undeutand it, but it we
_
cenuidor euroolveo at: eervantn of the social life, we muat speak from the stage
concerning all these thinqn abeut the Iowieh, or the Fascist. er the Spanish
question.'
We must try to revive our human connection with those thingo‘ and out thorn
en the stage in an artistic form, and say again to the audience that these are the
facts that are being read in the newspapem every day. but without feeling, be-
cause we have become accustomed to them.
An artiste. we have taken the
mission to show them to the audience in an artistic way.
Because of our artistic
work, the audience will awaken and will understand these things anew.
This is
t he a t re ' 5
one of thﬂmiesiene.
Another mission is to show good things which are going on in our life.
We


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
‘msx
n {:5 ~.
M . Chekhov
August. was
forgot to short tho gccd ihinga which are going on also.
M tho pmnonl Lima
human nut-um tools itself vary happy if it can can only one uido of tho thing.
Human nature in very unhappy whcn it in forced to sue two sidac of the name
thing, which are sometimes quits contradictbry.
It requires some consideration
and thinking. but we mun: be brave enough {a leak at bum sidou 01 an issue.
The artist is, of come. not a simple novll‘npapcr reader - ho is somoﬁﬂng
more - ho mustyllgg c! ovontu. ho muntﬁggl Lhasa events. and he aunt denim
and wink for things more than the average man.
Tncroforo, if ho moagccd aides
in bad things, thin in another mission.
02 gem-so. we used gcad playwrights
and philosophers whose philosoi‘lzy c9210: iron the hour: — we can all be phila-
sa;.:.u's from the head, but thought from tho heart in anothor nutter.
Than rm
mm: 500 gosd things also, and par: of this other side 02 tho bad mingu.
We can ﬁnd in our life purely wad things.
For innmncc. than: are many
good spiritual cumncu going on in the world, but we don't pay amnuon ta them.
We pay attention to only ono line - to Hitler, im- inntanco, an i! he were the
coma.
But there am so many wonderful things arming among young maple,
no many new ideas in iho world of science and nrchitccmro, in education. in
agriculture, in medicine, and in me church :hcro are mutants which are; trying
ta renew the church.
In religion and in philosophy gcad now utmams and
currents am there. but we do no: pay attention to than.
Tnis in also something
which we should show from iho stage;
this in again social work.
‘
'i‘ho ammo are flying in the air —
the question in only to take them and to
'
show them to the audience by artistic manna.
But to take them means to mako


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
am
‘m‘.
M . Chekhov
Auo‘um, 1939
our hearts and braln: iron from tho hypnonun o2 tho time, and to mako ourselvon
social-hearted, uodal-mlndcd, and willing.
You cannot ho ordered to be social-
nlnﬁcd - each of us must ﬁnd in the depths of our soul this dcalro.
We can
spool: about tho soaks! meaning o: the tlmatro on much an we mm. but lt doom
not moan that we will bocomo social—minded unless we ﬁnd that mono things
lntcmut uu vary intimately and we who the decision; than tho way will be opon
bocnuoo pcoplo are hero who can help us.
Why did I. for lnntunco, con-.3 to Dr. Steiner's teaching?
Not booauao
l huvo chosen hm ixom the many. many mystlcal currents which I have oom
lhrough. but I should say because ho has chosen no out of all this myuucal part
in which I lived so many yccm.
ﬁlls in very personal.
When on: ways ho to an
Anthropocophlat. 11: scans an accusation - may ﬂunk that thin cumin: hao
shown a very easy um, but l: in quits tho opposlta.
When a person Mon to
overcame his ogotlcm, he looks overwrhom.
Before ho comes to Dr. Stolncr.
ho mun ano so many pita.
"Eben ho soon that Anthmpanophy in tho made: way
(a: which ho was :oaklnq. and ho gets new ideas of tho social 1153. and than 1!
ocean qulto dlEioronz.
Not the agotist has: shown Anthropanophy - quite the
03:73:20 - Anthropouophy him chosen tho person.
Better to say that Anthro-
posophy [1 to 22an enough to choose aomo people which it takes from we, and
not the small ogoilaz ﬁne when Anthropocophy.
Thom are so may bountiful cmcma ln out llfo which can draw an to them,
If we only pay attention to them.
But as we don't pay attention no moan blg
sun-onto such an Anthroponophy, for Instance, lt cannot draw people to it becauoo


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
4H2}:
\\‘\.§;
M . Chekhov
August. 1939
pccplo are blind and do 1132me to coo tho real and. pure currents which are
there in our 1110.
But if we can can mono «mod currento 1n scionca. tension.
and phuosaphy. than we cgn ohm-7 those from the Main as wall at: tho but! 91:10
02 life.
To Show tho audionca-both the 399:2 and bad ntdan of our scam). life.
in to do 53:10! war}: \nmaut-forcan ourselvou to ho nautical.
It 15 a gift like
painting or music, to b3 u pollucallgi’c‘mnacd person.
If we are able to EGO scam! woman: and to show the ban and quad olden
on they um, than we am able ta take another amp {emu-d. which In to pmphocy.
and 11 um car-:3 absolumly nam‘ally. wmmuc faxing 12.
ThCTO I51 nguln : vcw
ammo law -
12 we really see those two minus. we can immodlamiy prophesy.
Tho 1:20pr c0203 mmedlawly 19 we know nomathtnq.
2mm in our human
mm — we wars: pchhcsy otherwise.
It Is Just ma c.1223 mm mm compllcutcd thlnqa.
K we are able to arm
mac: {Tea ucvcral aides and put turn 1:: meme: was and apnea, than we can
Emphony.
It in human autumn to react with a mﬁmcy on cvcxymlna which we
know.
Tho mantra mu prophecy at tho Eamon! it ouyn to 1:51:12. “We are going
to oxalcro sans quantum: of life. not only from tho newspapc;
, and no: undw
mo upmsntca of! mm bygone picture of Elder.“
DOROTHY SLMHIRDT:
Wank] you any, than, that wo mun: try ta got another
mention a! both um: and Space?
MICHAEL cmzmq'ov:
It is a very individual and intimate problem.
It Sn daakv
oblo. but when tho moment comm to think of it. 1! in very mdividual.
Moths:
.
great thing in to nppmctato tho mum: 0! art.
If tho means of an an: not growing.


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
 
$83.
_: \ \ g
M .' Chekhov
Auguuz', 1939
than it dion out.
It in not posoiblo to ﬁnd the an which in olive unless it
changes the means of mmmnalon.
Therefore, when we on: trying to explore
certain meanu of expression - our Method -
it In mt in vain because ifwo
don't do it, the theatre will die out.
Not because we have the only right manna,
but becauee new means must come.
Therefore. I am so chu’dnmely trying to
give you these moenn.
othcxwlno it in death.
We mu only repeat what other
actors have done; and though we repeat their good sides on well an moi:- mistaken.
we will never be as good an the original.
It degenerateo) Only now means can
give our an the possibility to make another step forward.
Perhaps you have noticed that the meunn wh ich I have tried to augment
are aemehew ﬁner than usual means. and this is the step forward.
For instance.
to radiate is a much finer thing then juo‘ to be en the Mega. and to speed: with
our Method in to use much finer speech then the ueunli
To have group fooling
la again much finer than to be en the stage without having it.
01 course, there
are other have which develop in crucial momenta of the art, ways which develop
outer eficets instead of inner mean of omession.
All mono decadent pcrlcde
are trying to catch the life by showing 1.: in dltfcrent dlmeneione and rephrasing
thlnqn, but 12 dies out because it 13' not the way to develop the art.
Therefore it may noon semeﬂmee that our Method is somehow vow incle-
nlﬂcent - rhythmical gesture. mdiauen. etc.
- they €915,130 weak and so
vague perhaps, but I think that thin lihﬁé Ibower.
I! we make much mine and
many different dimensions and complicated fermi: on the stage, it will not save
no.
It hon been ubuued and used.
It will not help us.
All these outer meant:


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
MEX
c
M . Chekhov
August, 1939
am only the effort to my to hide the nccoanxty to develop Inner moans of
wipronslon.
Thomfotc, the other point of VIOVI - haw tho theatre can nerve tho 50cm!
um -
is to develop and roﬂno tho moans with which mm an can oxyxonu itn
Mean.
It 15 too obvious M I any that the “nor the moans of ozzprosmon. tho
ﬂnor tho Mom: which can be summed.
By ﬂnor muans of oxpzonulon you can
express ﬁxings which will b0 17ng to tho audinnco.
It will understand things
without knowing how 1!: go: the Idea -
this is the secret.
Without any Dunno
offoctu, tho audmnco will 13:) caudﬂcd without Imowing why, bccqum 'thn moans
hm so imo that the conversation bemoan the audience and the Datum becomes
very subtlo. therefore much mom pmfound.
Them in a danger, of com-no.
11 min uubucty moans that matcad of
actors, more are angels without flash and blood wands-m about, mdluunq. than
,
x no am will understand what is going on on tho amgo.
But we muut not do thin.
The finer tho spirit, the mom body and blood them must be on the stage.
It Is
pounlblo to combine the highest spiritual idem: with the strongest ﬁttinm'e on the-‘-
stagc.
6mm as spin: means nothing -
nplrit is far tho body and tho body 5::
tho 1mm: - they are two friends.
A really spiritually-minded person will
clwaya appxcclum the phynlcal life, and everything abaut 1t.
gather mission for tho theatre in, of course, education in general.
Thin is really a wonderful limo for creating sax-nothing now in the theatre, hand
This
it is so necessary.
}{ m the time to do it.
'


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

v
 
\m. c
M . Chekhov
Auqunt, 1939
DOROTHY BLMHXRST:
Everything you have been saying meane education, but
do you mean aomothing more speciﬁc?
MICHAEL CHEKHOV:
Education in the sense that there is something we can
take in. and through this thing change aursolvee. and I also mean education
[or children.
GEORGE SHDAhiOFP:
The miutako and the danger of the theatre all over the
world today in the detachment of the theatre from the pteuent life with all its
complex problema. and an a consequence. the detachment of the public.
The
mistake in not that of the public, but that of the theatre. which becomes more
and more cowardly and lacking in courage.
The most important reunion of the
theatre in courageous leading oi the audience and not a running behind the
audience.
The actors and the theatre in general today are breeding over the
problem as to what in actually the taste of thin or that part oi the audience!
It in a problem which cannot be solved because it in not the miasien 02
the theatre to run after established taetee.
It is . on the contrarydws mission
to establish taste.
The taste of the public must be created by the theatre.
The Meacow Art Theatre oatabliahed an epoch in literature and theatre.
Before
it became conservative. it outabllsheci certain new currente in literature and
art.
It had a definite inﬂuence upon the intellectuals.
It was not able to
teach the people at that
time.
It
affected the actor's technique and
elaborated a new one.
It affected the social life beceuee many problems
were diecuuecd, and, of course, one of the missions and problems of the
social-minded theatre is definitely the education -
of grown-tape as well an
children.


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

,.
v.»
e:
r.
 
M. Chekhov
August, 1539
One current which is employed by a social-minded theatre is the
cdagegicel line toward the audience, and the second lino is to teach the
children, to try to inﬂuence them.
Our profession gives us a wonderful
opportunity to go along these paths.
Very few professions can give the
opportunity to say and think what we feel in all these spheres
- education
of children, philosophy, etc.
In order to be able to serve this wonderiul ideal or mission of the future
theatre, we actors, playwrights, and directors, and all the members and
workers
in the theatre must worl: very seriously on our own development and
technique, and minds and souls and hearts .
This is the most important
problem.
In order to become able to express all these deeper thoughts and
problems, we ourselves must. first of all. develop our abilities, professional
actor's abilities, human abilities, and minds.
DOROTHY ELMHIRST:
no you think the artist‘s work only expressoe his own
spirit?
Can a painter live a trivial life and paint great pictures ?
MlCHAEL CEEKHOV:
I! the artist relies only on his own spirit. than he is not
an artist.
He must deﬁnitely use inspiration and not be too egotistical
and say that this is my creation and me.
And from this point arisen immedi--
ately the question of the personality being second.
Another thing. all of us
are, and will be {or many thousands of years, two characters in one body
-
one is longing for something better and can accept inspiration, and the
other will always make mischief and show such dreadful grimaces.
It cannot


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

 
5::
y.
M. Chekhov
August, 1939
be avoided
- we must act both the devil in us and the angel.
it in difficult to say whether the ertiat mum always be good - he
can be good at times and sometimes very bad .
Chaliepln was sometimes
such an angel with great spiritual power
- an archangel with great power
and might to do and to say certain things; and at the came time, i have
seen him myself in much stupid situatlenu , speaking with stupid worda
-
it was such an example of two beings in one body.
1 have seen the
qrimece, but I have seen the archangel also.
we cannot require that the artist he an absolutely purified person -
it in the Faust problem
-
two men in one being.
Sometimes we must
laugh at them.
If one in too concerned with one'e ovm sin, it in very
difficult.
We mun: be free, but we must not always laugh.
— both must
be there
- we must be balanced.
Tc ehew humor on the stage in no
deuirabio an a social work.
We make a big mistake when we are acting
comedy — we begin to laugh, therefore the audience does not laugh.
In tragedy we begin to cry, and the audience dcee not cry.
in comedy
we must be absolutely serious. and in tragedy there must eiwnye be a
little laughter.
We eiten make this mistake.
The theatre ceneinte of audience and actors .
the audience in the
most important part of the performance, and not the actor.
We forget
that when the curtain goes up, the audience is so open to us end in
willing to accept us, and we always spoil this marvelous moment.
Inutead


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

 
M . Chekhov
August, 1939
of being with it, and giving u something, we do the opposite gesture.
We want to take the audlunce's applauso, and immediately we spoil the
connacuon with u.
1: immediately becomes not so friendly towards us
because it feels itself exploited.
If we will take these thlngs into
considerauon, we will establish quite a different connection with the
audience .
