

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
October 22.
1937
IﬁTROVISAFION
s THE METHOD
CONTACT
IEPROVISATION,
01d and New Students:
1. The scene is in a bank on a very active day.
2.
A group of gangsters appears es a group of private people. and-
after a signal is given by the head of the group they overwhelm
the bank employees and steal the money.
3. The police come and
the gangsters try to hide themselves.
They are disguised as
old people.
The improvisation is based on-objoetivos.
You must
get a special kind of power to grasp many objectives. one after
another.
You must develop this muscle, therefore change your
objectives.
We must realize what it means to live in the world
of 3933 - psychological or physical form.
Everything must be
£953 for us - inner or outer actions must both have form.
In this bank scene the old students must consider
themselves helpers for the new students.
The scene is merely
for the purpose of exercising such things as concentration.
imagination, atmosphere. objectives. etc.
Repeat the scene;
you must train yourselves to be able to change at once the
ground on which you are working - this is the meaning of this
exercise.
You must become flexible enough and powerful enough
to find, at the right moment. the right point of the Method for
the moment on which you are working.
CONTACT!


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

u. Chekhov
October 22. 1937
In this scene exercise especially contact.
By con-
tact we understand the expanding of our circle. and not only
being aware of what is going on around us psychologically end
physically.
You must take suggestions mom one another and
then there will be intercourse between two actors.
Establish
a relationship between yourself and others.
Real contact is
not only between actors. but with tho structures and every-
thing on the stage.
Be very conscious of what you are ‘in con-
tact with.
Take this contact consciously. and it will be your
guide - never be vague.
Tho ability to be concentrated on things which you
choose yourself is what we are working for. and not to be con-
centrated only on things which attract you.
To be attracted
without will or to bo attracted becauoo you want to be attrac-
ted - this is a very important difference.
I have seen for tho first time today the instinct
for ylaying which children have.
If you are able to awaken
this instinct it means for the actor's art that you are vic-
tors.
For the first time I have seen you unafraid in contact.
and there was a certain charm which is in the playing of chil—
dren.
Keep this in mind. because it is the best quality you
can get.
And how are we able to awaken this instinct for play-
ing?
Through just such yedontie exercises as we have been do-
ing.
The more careful the way, tho more conscious. the more
you pay attention to all the exorcises, such as fooling of ease.


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

M. Chekhov
October 22.
1937
beauty - everything. then tho result will be that the flowers
will open inside you, and you will get this ability to play as
children, but the difference will be that children are doing
it quite instinctively, while you will do it with the knowledge‘
which has become again child-like.
Therefore we have our school.
This was the first Sign this morning. and you must
appreciate it as I do.
When you were playing, at once contact,
fooling of beauty.
feeling of ease. and concentration wore there
because they are all one mysterious, beautiful thing which we
call the artist's soul,
or ability.
or spirit.
But we must ex—
orcise them ueporately and pedontically.
