

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

QM
'
Michael Chekhov
November 13.
1939
STYLE
PSYCHOLOGY OF THE CHARACTER SHOWN BY THE BODY
FEELING 0F TRUTH
FEELING OF EASE - LIGHTHESS
SPEECH
~
ACCENTS AND POINTS
CHARACTERIZATION
RHYTHM - BREATHING
Diokono
Shakespeare
Adventures of Samuel Pickwick, Eng.
We have to be in great hnato about Pickwick.
You
have proved yournolvcu an wall-trained actors, now we have to
prove our oxporioncu of the stage.
Ono way in to be able to
work an quickly as possible but Dtill having inuido tho
Method;
I will give you tanks. and I will require that the
tasks are accomplished in Ono or two hours. not in the manner
of ﬁonnolenu hurry but because ynu are ablo to manage yourselvoa.
The first stop is to icaginu your character.
STYLE!
We muut give the inprcnuion from tho Dtugc.by means
of uitting and by means of noting. that this is something very
Idiatant and very old. in the sense of old furniture which is
prociouu and beautiful.
How to get it?
First we must find
the bodies which we son in the illustrations.
You must sunllnw
and digest entirely tho puychology of tho bodieu - why certain
characters have such knees. such backo.
otc.
Psychologically
why.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
6‘2 M.
M. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
PSYCHOLOGY OF THE CHARACTER SHOWN BY THE BODY:
(1) The bodies must be taken from the illustrations
Emilmhanli‘]. but your business is to achieve all these
things.
For this air: you have to meditate in your imagination
on these figures.
Don't fly over the pictures simply to get
a. superficial impression.
Try to take one of the ﬁgures and
imitate it with your peychelogy so strongly that your body
needs to be changed because of thie psychology.
Absolutely
a psychological approach to these new bodies.
Tnkoﬂono figure
.
and work upon it. then another and work upon that - different H
figures which you will cling to.
FEELING OF TRUTHI
(2) Absolute and complete feeling of truth.
It is
essentially important in this play because if we lie a little
in our bodies or voices or psychology. we will immediately
become toegyoung — as though the old furniture is here butwmw
some sodem person hue imitated it by very rude mane.
You
will immediately feel that it is a crime. and it it not true.
In the oame sense you will feel the need of the feeling of
truth in this play especially.
All these points will give
the impression of something beautiful because it in from for
way .
FEELING 0F EASE - LIGHTNESS:
(3) Complete feeling of ease - quite the opposite
to The Possessed. in which the form woo somehow continually


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
M. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
filled with uomothing which we were continually pushing into
the audience.
Here. there is a. complete feeling of ease and
lightneee.
The feeling of eaee munt always belong to the
actor. but the quality of lightness belongs to thin play.
Lightneeu in the epoeeh too. so that the performance will be
light and. like a marvelous drama in which everyone flies ‘
A not a nightmare an in The Peeeeseod - a dream in which thigj'ggm
seen to be and yet not to be.
SPEECH!
‘-
The voice will be very deciuive in thin play.
Every-
one mum: work on hie voice to get this specie]. kind of cane
and lightneee.
That in the Mylo.
If the critics and audience
say you upeal: artificially - they have not get accustomed to
it yet. but we are going to develop thin new human speech —
not market place or street speech; there in nothing to develon
there - other uetom bring it onto the stage. and they are
content with it.}>,but we uhall go along the lino of this beau-m
tiful human apeeeh which we are developing.
Each performance
will make you more competent in your use of this speech.
ACCENTS AND' POINTS!
(11:) Don't uteri: with thie. and I will not force you
to do it. but it is something which will give us the etyle of
the play.
It in a very fine and intangible moment on the
stage which is like our exercise of wrestling without muscles -
this kind of beauty must be en the ntego.
Then moments with


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

3.?
 
N. Chekhov
November 13.
1939
certain figures are fixed and then very light and new move-
mente and again fixed memento which will become mwoloue
ace'énte and neinte on the otuge and which will give more engw 0
more charm to thin performance.
Thin will come lutor.
If you will really meditate on these peinte and
imagine the cuttings - the charm of old England - if you will
meditate on it. you will see that thin in the point and the
.
uﬁylo of the play.
Nothing of exaggeration or grotesque gum“
truthful and in the style.
In this play try to radiate your-
selvee from your chests - not your idoue but yourselves.
Radiato yourselves.
First Scene:
Stately. sunny. guy. forml Sunday
aﬁnoepheree
Polite. refined society. ‘Bheoo people give than?”~
EME-
Pickwick oende hie Joyful being from his chest.
He
10 the meter. the leader. and the othoro epcn themselves to
receive him.
Giving and receiving psychologically.
Second Scene:
Theoo lietening must follow Jinglo'e
description.
Jingle meet first eee what he in doucribing
before he dcecri‘oce it.
he in the opoctater and toletefet
the same time. and he in more netoniehod than anyone else at
what he euye.
He never known what he in going to tell next.
He enjoys when hit: listenero feel the effect of his imagination.
He in two men eitting in one - an angel. and a devil.
He is
peeeeosed of this creative spirit which is Dickene‘ justifica-
tion for each character. but he has
a. childish ebeeesion with


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
52.92%
51. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
hie imagination.
He in not afraid of anything.
Hie lietenere
destroy the epell he has created. and than he come out of it.
but he never does it himself.
He is a magician.
There nuet
be a traneition free the real life which in unploucan’c. into
the world or hie imagination which in pleasant. he is inpggﬁnﬁ.
First Scene.
Rooting with ma. Harden and Sam.
This in one ”Miocene, with a béﬁmning and an and.
arch
egg’ce Duet be complete hocuueo our attention in drawn here
anti there cmetantly.
The attention of the eudionog nuet be
fixed by this feeling of the whole which will load them.
For
the character of Sen you met odd anothervquali‘ty - try to be
eunpiciouo of everything and everyone.
ﬁligrouaheue the whole
part.
Even when he epcako with Piolmiok. when he levee. he
in eue-picioue thin: he will do‘ eonsthing good.
hire. Clnppinu_
must be more sale. without hurry - try to get thie ghiemeeo
.
and poioo.
This poieo mum: not doeﬁrey the chokingrnnd killing
quality - choking everything. (the life. the people, everything -
ovon herself.
her objective can be “I want to find'eonething.
constantly. to manage and to choke.“
The quality for Pickwick
in that he enjoys himself as a gentleman.
CHARACTERIZATION I
I
In the drawinge {‘cruikehunkj. each figure has a cer-
tain poychology which doee’nei: belong to any particular char-
nccor. but to all of then.
We (301% this etylo by studying the
drewinge.
But how?
You nun? who a figure and try to penetrate


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

$2M;
m. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
into the psychology of the figure - don't imitate it outwardly.
Try to find out my; the person etundo in a certain way - if
you confuoe theee two things, you will not find the style.
You
must experience the non). of the figure.
Cheeeo one of the
figure!) sued try. to find the peyehelogy. then do it on long on
you-feel you have the right to keep your leg in a certain
peeition - no long on you feel it Le psychologkcullw right.
When you have Juetiﬂed it inwardly. then please try to move.
find eut he.) the yereen would move - it must be thepoyehelew
thin: nevee. -; cheese the figure. etudy it. and then begin te
move.
It requires extremely developed feeling of case so that
the audience won't know whether it exiete or not. it will be
no light and eaey.
The charm of the play in that it to eeeeheﬁremoved
in time - but not old foehtcncd - e. very fine thing - neither
the pact non the future.
We don‘t mean a ereng anticipation
of the future. but u very fine thing - thingo can be removed
in time ,1th as they can be removed in epace.
The etyle
roquiroe that we get the impression that it in removed in a.
good some - veiled.
The feeling of case will remove no in
time.
For inotance. surrealim in painting is the wrong unti-
clpatlon of these future thinge.
Don't imitate the face of the drawing — the face is
the finest membrane - tee face and eyes will radiate themeelvee
the powers which we have in our whole being.
\ 7.‘


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
,.,ecando%lll.
Liter we will have the ability to moverond
as. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
The style of the play requires that all theoe
moving figures will oometieeo come to a wonderful kind of
then for an ine‘cant there will be a certain pence. and then
on again.
‘
Abeeluto feeling of truth.
There must be nothing
of exaggeration» of showing off. or squeezing out of emotions.
Try. to imagine all the auggootiono together. and you will get
a feeling of the otylo.
If you will etudy the drawings. you will see that
the characters are full of emotions — pueoionuto.
They are
not renewed on the English people are today.
They are 00
full of onetime, eo allow yourself to develop your euotione
in this play to the fullest extent.
\10 are going to perform
a. very paeeiennto company. of people with inner power and fire
and unbridled tanner of living.
Combino'thio with an extreme
feeling of cﬁeo.
No one in allowed to about on the etogo - the voice
mew be loud but never become chanting becauue of the foot
that it is removed in tine.
If you will vieuolioo the per-
formnncc. you will be no shocked by imaginary «shouting.
In Dickens there are two very obvieue quolitioe -
he takes aometirgoo along. great event and a‘eomplicated pey-
analogy in one movement and deecriboe with a few wordo the
thing which perhaps goon on for waeko one weeks.
01: the


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

PEPE”.
 
Wthon o. 11¢.th are?» of .details.
That is his rhythm.
In
M. Chekhov
November 13. 1939
other hand. he has ouch a fine instrument that he begins to
elaborate details of the details of the details., This is
Just as cmmctoriotie of his as the big thingst He looks
at things‘ through a mfmroscopo - this is very choraeterietiﬂeww
of him.
RHYTHM - BREATHINGI
Rhythm hes the process of breathing us one of its
elements. and the breathiﬁg in Dickens isone big sweep and
Shakespeare's plays you will: find the whole play breathes eo
marvelously.
As in 1.312; - how it starts
‘- overyene expects
the appearance of Bear. and nothing is going on on the stage —
waiting for something - ,Loar approaches — the scene begins to
be filled with outer means of expression - music — and Leer
appears as an outer thing - red. geld. shining. the earth. and
the world of tremendous outer powers.
Then. after he has con—
mitted three crises - cursed hie daughter and. destroyed his
kingdom in evil power — then again the action goes down and
then we have the scene in which the sisters are speaking —
then the pause which is included in the rhythmical event. and
than Edgar begins to speak his soliloquy.
In all of this you
will see this marvelous breathing process.
I
Just so in Dickens. he breathes in general and then
in details.
You will find this in the rhythmical pattern of
the growing plant - out and in - and finally the need.
It is


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
aa?&
14. Chekhov
November 13, 1939
rhythm and music. and when we will got it. no will understand
such thingu in our acting, as charming and. an intangible nu
muuié.
Out of this. climxoo appear ~ albums are accumu-
lating onuontml and 11:11:0th things in the play - they are
camprossing than into one ﬁxing and than diu'aolving it - than
othor things come; much an anti-climax).
Thom are really no
mm_,,mt£—cllx:azou - ﬁhoro arc rovomod‘ cllclxﬁb which give the)”
imprecision. bus: ii: in really another thing - the polarity.
