

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

1/3
4‘:
fr:
(7 3
New York
November 2k. 19Q1
HJCHAEL CHEKHDV'S SIXTH CIASS FOR PROFESSIONAL ACTORS
"THE CREATIVE PROCESS — THE INSPIRATION - THE METHOD"
THE CREATIVE PROCESS AND THE IYAGINATION
THE METHOD
OUTER EVENTS AND THE ACTOR'S INNER LIFE
FEELING OF FORM - THE AGTOR'S BODY
CHARACTERIZATION
uovrmﬁmm AS FORM
FEELING 0F EASE
Leo Tolstoy
when scientists today try to calculate the ability
of the human heart to pump so muchlliquid which moves through
the big and small channels of the body. they cannot see that
it is mechanically impossible to imagine such a pump as our
heart.
First of all, the human heart. which would be able to
move this quantity of blood, must be much bigger and stronger
than it is, and the substance of the heart would havo to be
of quite different material.
The whole secret is that the
blood moves ana the heart follows. but our physiologists are
not so well developed in science that they can accept this.
They don't think the blood can move of itself. but they be;
lieve that the heart moves of itself.
THE CREATIVE PROCESS AND THE INSPIRATION!
It is just the same with the creative process and
the inspiration.
It was once true that the creative process
and the inspiration came of themselves. but now it is no longer
so.
How we have to aojust our organism. physically and men-
tally, to the process of "in"spiration. and. therefore. the


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

M. Chekhov
November
214-.
1914-1
method is needed.
A few decades ago,
if you suggested to a
gifted actor that he study a method. he would tell you that
he did not need it because ho had inspiration.
But living
in our present modern life. to cling to the old belief that
inspiration comes of itself would be wrong.
one of our ene-
mies is the intellect, and the other is not knowing that the
technique or method is needed. and this is often the most
detrimental thing for no.
Because if we deny the mothod.
win
cannot assume it. and if we do not know it exists. we cannot
assume it either.
THE METHOD:
when we look upon this point which we call the cre-
ative process and tho inspiration.
it is. of coursenour last
and only aim, and we must look upon this point as though it
were the center. and on tho periphery there are so many doors
through which’ we had to look.
By looking through these doors
at the moment of inspiration, what will we go-ﬁftho end?
we
will get only the method.
when we speak about the atmosphere,
it is one of the doors which we can open and see there is the
creative process. and there is the spark of inspiration.
We
open another door, which may be the fooling of 0350 perhaps.
than the door of the imagination - all the points of our Method
are theao doors.
How does one reach the state where it is necossary
to look through all these doors?
It is a very painful experi-


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

h 2) o C
M. Chekhov
November 2h. 19h1
ence which we all have.
This necessity,
this painful neces-
sity.
is there in every one of us to some extent.
We know,
we feel. we experience that as actors, as artists, as cre-
ators. as human beings we are rich in and full of unfulfilled
desires, undiscovered thoughts. unexperienccd feelings. all
of which are looming somewhere before us.
In our everyday life certain intimations of our-
selves we can have, although if we were inwardly free. we
might live quite a different life, speak quite differently,
react to life quite differently.
But now try to look at what
we are doing on the stage. quite objectively and without self
pity.
We are psychologically crippled beings — we are so
small and narrow-minded while we are roptesenting this or
that character.
We are almost puppets - if we have, let us
say.
six feelings in our life - schematically speaking - we
bring one of them to the stage.
‘If we have six thoughts in
lite. we show one of them from the'stage.
instead of becoming.
during the creative process on the stage. onlsrged.
enriched,
spreading beings'fulfilling all ‘our creative desires and emo-
tions.
‘er could free ourselves on the stage and satisfy not
only ourselves but the audience also. because they are in the
same position - they live lives which are regulatee by the
clock and they have no real imagination or freedom.
on the
stage we can find that all the moments can be filled with the
most profound, the utmost inner things which we bear in ourselves.


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

121;)",
m.
Chekhov
November 2h.
19b1
but which we cannot experience or express during our everyday
life.
Instead of which we become smaller and smaller.
For
instance. let us take the characters of Hamlet. Ophelia,
or
Cordelia. they can be for us wide open doors through which we
find ourselves.
instead of which we become smaller than they
and even smaller than we are in everyday life. because if
there is no moment of inspiration. no signpost leading to the
inspiration, then we are doomed to a crippled existence on
the stage.
when one feels he cannot display himself on the
stage, then the torture begins, because one feels he is sit-
ting in a psychological prison.
Then the necessity arises to
see the creative process from all possible doors.
So we know
that the method has a number of points of view on the creative
process. and that the necessity for this Method is because of
the painful experience of not being able to live our life
fully enough on the stage. but on the contrary becoming smaller
and more contracted.
OUTER EVENTS AND THE INNER LIFE:
We have spoken about the four stages of the creative
process, and have illustrated them with a series of charts.
Now let us look at the creative process from another point of
view.
Let us describe
it differently.
What aspect of the
creative process would allow us to live this full life?
Ima-


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

m. Chekhov
November 2“, 19h1
gins that there are two possibilities - one is ourselves and
the richness which we cannot giaoovor. and another is the
wrong kind of play lying there before us.
when we modern
actors don't know or don't want to know what the creative
process is, we do the following thing.
We take this wrong
kind of play, and instinctively close ourselves and say,
"Now I am alone. and I won‘t show anything of myself. because
if I do.
I will immediately be out of the style of the pro;
sent theatre.
I have to show my clichée. but not myself.
because it is so embarrassing to Show myself on the stage."
So I close myself and take the play which is all
outside. all external, and I begin to study the text and then.
by means of clichﬁe.
I begin to try to pronounce the words
from the stage.
The play remains an outer thing. and the
inner part of me remains inner and still more closed.
An
.illusion takes place — a phantom consisting of certain clichée
comes out of mo. takes hold of me and speaks the words with a
dead voice.
The play is finished.
the phantom has done its
work. and I can go home.”
But the right wey would be to take.this wrong play,
and turn it into my inner life so that it will become a sym-
bol for my inner new life, which 1 have to discover within
me.
It will not be the wrong play then. but will be me expres—
sing myself through the suggestions given by the author.
So
the outer thing becomes the inner thing. and my inner life


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

m. Chekhov
November 24. 19141
becomes an outer thing.
I give it to my audience. and I do
not keep it inside me.
If we try to look upon all the points
of our Method. we will see that they are the means of chang-
ing our inner life into an outer one.
If this idea becomes
a living thing in one's mind.
it means not only to have the
picture.
V
I must tell you certain ideas and conceptions.
if
you are to understand my am.
All the points of the method
can be understood from the point of view of tmnsformhdg the
outer thing; into the inner life, and changing the inner life
into the outer event.
To know this means to be able. to a
great extent. to manage it and to do it.
Leo Tolstoy once
said that if you are angry and want to be rovenged on someone,
instead of trying to preach a moral to oneself you ‘should.
imagine very concretely, day after day. that you have got the
opportunity to revenge yourself. and that your victim is down.
The more you realize that you are victorious and your victim
in cruohed. the more surely this knowledge will bring you‘ the
fruit which you don't expect.
‘It is your real desire.
You
will lose the desire to be revenged. and you will have such
compassion for your victim. and the real true man in you will
show because you will :mow what you are aiming at.
If we know what we are aiming. at in the method. we
will get it, not only as I suggest it. but you will get it for
yourself.
Each one
01‘ us is a creative individual.
and. before
.1


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

Ill. Chekhov
Novembor 2h.
1941
he gets the Method personally he muo’c imagine himself developed
by means of the Method.
It has to be your method.
You have
110 conceive of it in quite a different way, and no one elso
can ooncoivolof it in the some way.
I must give you my con-
baption :of
~the: method. and you’ must imagine how you will accept
it.
Then you will get a vision of ’che method which is yours
and not mine, and you can develop it according to your own
individuality.
If you think I am going to impose something
on you. you will throw it away.
The point is to individualizo
the things which I am going to toll you.
Now let us take one more point from our method.
I
have told you that there are four qualities which each actor
must have as permanent qualities which he can apply whenever
his creative individuality wants to apply them, and ‘in which
way.
Ono of them was the feelin~ of ease. and another was
tho fooling of form-
FEELIHG OF FORM ~ THE ACTOR'S BODY:
The feeling of form which I have in mind is.
of
course. the outer form starting with our body - we must try
to meditate upon our ovm ,body as
a. form, to experience it as
a form.
'{io forgot thingo which we have no right to forget.
We have to realize certain facts which are so obvious.
so
well~known
“co everyone that no one thinks about them any more.
But we must know that our body is a form - a definite,
concrete
form.


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

"\i
M. Chekhov
November 24.
1941
At first, it may seem difficult to realize that we
have arms and hands which are able to move in different direc-
tions.
It is so obvious. therefore. our movements are formless
and s apelees, unless we go through this obvious thing con~
Beiously.
If we try to realiZO that we have arms. hands.
legs.
and feet. and are astonished by the fact. then we will become
able to manage than subconsciously.with much more ex ressive-
P
“058-
Decadee ago. people were much less poisoned by the
intellect — their lives were not like ours. torn to pieces by
everything around us. radio, television, telephone - senseless
distractions, but we have grown accustomed to them.
In the
past. people were much freer in their spirits and souls, their
nerves were much more sound. their heart—beats more normal.
their breathing much deeper than ours and many, many physical
ﬁnd psychological thhags were not lying upon them like a ter-
rible weight
it.
, which 1195 upon us even though we may not feel
When we awaken again this feeling of our bodies as
a form.
it will give us a new and definite ability to manage
and govern our bodies in the most expressive way, and more than
that} we will be able to get inspiration from our bodies.
Here I nust again speak about a small point ~ we get
inspirations from our bodies although we do not know it. but
our bodies inspire us mostly in a wrong. narrow way because


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

m. Chekhov
November 24,
19h1
they are the expression of certain ideas we have about our-
selves.
If I am fat and have a big tummy. then I express a
certain idea.
If I am very thin and have a Very thin waist.
I cannot got rid of this idea and all my inspirations come
from this thin waist.
or I have a well-developed chest.
which gives another psychology.
If I have big feet. for
instance.
I stamb<n everyone psychologically.
Instinctively
and artistically we feel it.
If. for instance, a very fat
person sayn.
"I will run and bring it to you." of course
there is something humorous about it.
“
Therefore, there is something which comes purely
from our bodies as a form. which inspires us consciously or
subconsciously.
If our bodiec are developed to such an ex—
tent that it will be just the same which waist. which shoul—
ders. which feet we have. if we are able to manage our bodies
to such an extent that we will get inspiration from the whole
body, than we will get inspiration from our physical bodies.
It may sound strange that something like inspiration. which
is very Spiritual, can help us in this way. but it is true.
So this suggestion to experience the body as a form is again
the way to the same point - to the creative process and tha
inspiration.
Exercise:
The simoler we do this exorcise the better.
First
try to realize.
each for himself.
that you have a body which


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

M. Chokhov
November 2“. 1941
is upright.
No other being in tho world has such a position -
animals are horizontal and oven apes are bound to the earth
in an ugly way.
so realize that you are upright.
Then real-
ize that your head is Kim: age
freon this part of your being.
and that your head is round;
i‘his
is: the only round part of
your body.
Then realize that you touch the earth but you do
not belong to it.
New recall that animals are bound to the
earth Withall four legs.
The cow,
for instance. is completely-
hourﬂ; to the earth.
But we can touch the earth here. there.
and everywhere.
Now move about and realize that you are touch—
‘
ing the earth by pushing it back.
Then realize the following
i‘actu
that the animal has to use all if its four extremities.
Now take a position and realize that being an animal you can—
not move your hands and arms.
What
a. terrible thing that is.
How can you express yourself?
Even the head is turned to the
earth.
Compare this imaginary animal psychology with your
ability to stand upright and have free hands and arms.
We
must appreciate the fact that they are from
Now you will
see that the arms and hands are the most expressive part
01‘
our physical being.
But‘wo confuse two things, we confuse our
heads - including all the most subtle muscles of the face -
with our arms and hands and try to express things by making
gestures with our faces.
That is a terrible thing.
When we
laugh on the stage. for instance. and try to show the teeth,


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

H. Chekhov
.
November 21}, 19%
etc.
- all such grimacos are made because we confuse the move-
ment of the hands and 3.2133. and substitute movements of the
face;
All such grimces are coming from our subconscious
‘confusioanacuuse we do not hnoiv what our arms and hands are
for.
When we keep them in our pockets, there is nothingy for
us to do but make faces.
When we learn to use our zirms and
hands. then our eyes will become more expressive on the stage.
and that is right because our whole life will be concentrated
in our eyes.
We have the right to radiate with our eyes.
It is sometimes; considered that moving the hands
and arms is a national instinct - for instance. Russian, Italian.
and French people move the arms and hands too freely for Ameri—
can taste.
Your taste will tell you how much you should use
this ability.
The ability must be there. but how t6 apply it
in a question which you. as an individual artist must find
out.
But what is wrong — whether you are American for foreign -
is to always have the hands in your pockets..
After we realize that this rom1d.thin5, our head.
must not produce gestures or grimaces. and after we'ltroa‘lize
v
that we have our arms and hands freq from the earth. and that
we are upright and touch the earth by pushing it back. then
we have to realize one more thing in order to experience our
body as a form.
and. that is that we have in our chests ‘an im-
ginary center, then we shall find that all our movemnnts on
the stage. and in life, will become much i‘rcer and ‘richer and


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

‘M‘M‘
H. Chekhov
Iovomber 24. 1941
more expressive.
If we are not dragging ourselves behind us,
which is always the case when we do not know where our center
is.
When I imow where I am centralized as
a. form, than I
move forward. being; led by this center.
The whole harmonious
psychological attitude is there for everyone of us, and‘thio
is the key to many abilities.
To fool oneself harmonious inwardly. means that one
is able to produce inlmrmonious things much from: and better.
011 the other. hand, if we are always inhamonious and try to
produce beautiful things, we are always wrong.
Now. walk around
being led by this center.
Feel the cantor in you" chest. and
see how the whole body will become grateful to you for harmoni-
._ {ting—it,
so that the arms and hands and legs and feet are some—l
how in their right place. as it were.
You will find that both physical and psychological
balance will come. and the body which has been made harmonious
gives us inspiration.
The scope of the inSpiration is wider.
the ideas which the artist and actor will get will be much-
richer and more interésting.
if they come from a sound. har—
monized body.
We can recall again the fat person who tries to run
for something. if we penetrate into his imagination and see
how he thinks of himself. that is quite a different world.
It is a very different kind of thing from that of another per-
son with another kind of body.
His world is different from


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

xsx
L‘
M. Chekhov
November 2L5.
1914-1
the world of any one of us.
A tall person has.
of course.
a.
different kind of imagination from that of a short person.
but the only way is to harmonize our own body, and then be
ablo to imagine oneself fat.
tall.
short. or thin.
01‘ course. the physically fat person cannot imagine
and perform a. thin person. but if he triers to harmonize his
body in the way we are speaking about. he can give the impres—
sion of a thin person.
Pickwick was like that. I imagine.
I
because his character was somehow organized. but Falstaff was
quite different because his whole psychology was around his
stomach and even lower.
' sir Andrew Aguachoék'a center was in
his nose.
CHARACTERIZATIOI-i I
We will touch upon another point in our Hethody
that
of characterization.
We must, have the psychology of an ideal
body,
even if we do not have a physical one, then we will see
how easy and pleasant it will be to imagine and perform any
bodily characterization.
Very humorous things can be found
in this way.
For instance,
if you will imagine that your
whole center is in your nose. or your center is behind you.
a fat, heavy, round thing which drags you back.
Your whole
body will become expressive through your inner imaginary body.
340w walk around to tho rhythm of a march. recalling
all the things we have mentioned - the head a round form. the


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

,\
if”
(h
m. Chekhov
November 24. 19L+1
center in tho chest. the anus, and logs starting from the
center like
:L big scissors.
IIOVEII‘IEN’P AS FORM:
“the next point is that we must experience the move-
ment as a form itself.
This is also very important.
Because
if we develop this ability to experience our movements as
forms. then again we shall become more expressive, even if
our hands and arms are in our pockets!
If you do it with a
feeling of form. then it means something.
For thistxercisc.
try to stretch your right am out and experience the process
as a form.
You begin and you stap. and what happens is the
form in movement.
It can help us very much to imagine that
we mold the air by our movement. and that something remixing
in the air after we have made our movement.
when we experi—
ence this feeling we will know what it means to experience
form in movement.
Now got up and experience the movement as
a. form.
which you carve and mold in tho stir around you.
Now sit down
with the same feeling of form.
Do it pedantically so that
later on it will become free. spontaneous and subconscious.
Then combine movements of your arms and hands when standing
up, and take a few steps forward.
Do not drop the movement
vaguely or accidentally. but decide when you are going to
stop the exercise.
You may become
a. little stiff and staccato


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

A
H. Chekhov
November 2h.
1941
in your movements at first. but it will pass.
Now take a
certain position and imagine that it is in the air. then
move sway from it and imagine that the form remains in the
air.
This will awaken the feeling of form in you.
Now shake hands with the fooling of form. and say,
“Hello." or.
"Goodbye."
Now three persons will meet and
improvise the meeting each time, by adjusting to each other.
You must experience the feeling of form of three persons
meeting.
You will See that your actor's nature becomes more
and more satisfied as you do the exercises.
Now let us experience some abstract movements.
Ono
person will take a position and hold it. and another person
will join him and take a position in harmony with the other.
New another step.
We must combine the feeling of form. plus
the theme which will be given by music in this case.
We will
listen to the music, and, feeling the theme intuitively, we
will take positions in harmony with the musical theme and the
bodily positions which are creating and expressing it.
Now
let us take a theme such as jealousy.
FEELING OF EASE:
,
Let us once more exercise the feeling of case in
the simplest way by raising our arms and hands. which are the
most expressive things in our actor's profession.
Now take
a chair and move it with the feeling of case.
It will lose
its weight because we are filled with the feeling of ease.
”/1


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

ﬂ. Chekhov
November 2#, 19u1
Now the whole group will take the heavy table with the feeling
of case. and lift it so that the table will seem to be without
Now each member of the group will get up and say.
weight.
"Hello." t9 the whole group - it will be a litile performance
for each one. again using the feeling of eﬁse.
It is good
when rehearsing sometimes to drop everything and just take
feeling of case.
