

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
Seneﬁ‘bf tho‘renllty behind the play. 3‘10 Peeeeuend, this
Michael Chekhov
.
September 22, 1939
CREATING THE INNER LIFE OF THE CI'LARACT‘FIR
Tm
"I AM" OF THE CHARACTER
The Peeee and - A Play in Fifteen Scenes by George Shdnnoff
(mood on ideas from Dootoyeveiw'n nri‘cingu. ‘eepecially on his
neve;. The Peeen’eeodzg
-'
'
'
-
‘
a
. Chekhov said that having had
1: picture from Mr.
would‘give us the'.poeeib!.1my of approacMncv-cho‘pmy more
'
deeply, but he elao 'uug'gopted that we try tegﬂhid another ep-
pmaeh 'to the problem, from the ineldo.
{16' ucﬁers and artiste
with a developed magmatien.‘
This in our prerecoicmnl ap-
px-ench.
_In the deuorip‘biun' 0: characters to follow. he urged
evoryano to unethe powers of hie imginntien byvtryinz to
pro eat the characters .ento the'etaze. anﬂ'te Examine-then
act
a there. :This weugsl enable no vte see the inner life of
the chnmctere'i- thee "I'Am._"
CREATING THE maimmme,
TH‘E .ImgIVIbUALmy or THE CHARACTER:
'
Imagine Shatev _- what race eeuld appeer before your
mixgia eye itjyeu were ebie {in pmetrﬁe into shatevfe eo'ul?
‘lgu vohld 'on ’chore. an mega which _Sl_::_\tev and an the other
Sheteve in the eerm have. - feh'o 3::ng of e. man, a hunnn‘being-
shatm}, reached the {gift fem} abeve co have the v" ion of u
hen. of
15114556 precious jzhing uhichicaeh of us hue inwardly. but
uefortunetely each of ad econ not r6933!) cui- inéiividunu’cy.
maxim school we call menu ”I An.“ _
TH‘F‘. “I AM":
'
-
V
Shatev is definitely‘u cleiz'veyant poreen for seeing
this; “VI An°-in ever-gene.
There ‘10 nothing more erecieue for
Shntov than the ."x Am“_ in everybody, and he eeeevﬂizlfet- of all
med perhaps noes:
011.2133. ,the personality beﬁtﬁro him.~ "Ho judges
everyone from the peint of V5.0?! of uhethef he is :1 mm or not.
and what kind 01' a mm.
This thing bun-1e in his eyes. and is
expressed in his whole figure.
He is seeking for individuals,


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
ﬂ
(7
m. Chekhov
,
September 22. 1939
for 1i'vinglbeingo. for the "I An“ in everyone und‘in himeolf.
He in too hohoet and too great to think of hiaoo'tf. he actually
dour-sinuo- himself becauoo he looks for society and for human
liven.
For Shatov. society in not something vague like
a.
ﬂock or a. use, it is unlimited space. phyoieel end opiz-‘ituol.
in which everywhere are spark}: of. individuals.
When he approaches
smmgin. he once in him a great individuai. which is not the
right one.
He soon Vorkhovcneki and says.
"In him I don‘t soc
any Snaividunl.“’1?hin in hio torture - he hates Vcrkhovtnokin
not cnly becauoo of his wrung menu. but becaueo he cannot see
in him a person.
o. nan.
,
Shotov in in love with hutzm 7:0th. and he has
visions Hand ideals.
Ho £0018 concretely that tho hand he
shaken in only the manifestation of oomething which in deeper
and deeper.‘ in the very dopthe of the person - another ~"I Eta:
another individuality which cannot '60 killed.
\‘Iho out Shutov
could live with xix-110v?
No one. because no one also has
this tremendous feeling and vision for henan hoingu which
Shetov hes.
He sees Kirilov no anothei individuol who in ill.
who needs help and warmth.
For Shatov ho ‘io‘not o. inﬂame but
an ill “I Am."
She-kw will never loco hie admiration before
Kirilov'e existence. buggers: him.“ An." before me rigmhéio iii/o
and to suffer and
1:0. be glad.
‘
Ae he sees the “I An“ in everyone. Shotov gueeooe


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
 
k.
“62.:
1‘; e:
m. Chekhov
'
September 22 .’ 1939
that the theories of the materialistic eciontﬁzcte of tho'_
t1m.' such :10 Dam1n. are wrong.
He sees anothef thing -
something no great. no 0:.tended in the whole universe. and
he cannot think or feel other than 11' such un1vorsa1 yeah
noun 0:731:2th
of course, we are 1101: only the 0:311. atup1d
human beingo walking on the earth; there in something greater.
and this greater $111216 1:: what huemhy cane God. and whlely
human”); has even bpeiled' by using the-name of God..-
Shintov purifies this: nine
-— he kncrm that from above
and not from and 61:31]. anoetﬂ.can we "I An” be crcndd.‘ Only
from above - that in his geneml feeling textures Itho peas:
and Medea widch had created 1:110:70
E'I Ana.“
But this is net
ell-1n addition to having a very sharp insight for this
00%;», thing uh1ch‘uo call “I Am'i‘ ‘the personality or the
individudufy.
shntov amen the s'hatevu endemmd another
thing. they understand ﬂat Ghz‘1 1:10 nee a. 'God in general.
>
at all.
Outlet 1:: anindividuality - Christ-10 a personality -
Chriut 10 the higher)" “I An" 1n the whole Universe- 1f the
whole Univoruo could preneunoe “I An” chat would be the voice Oil.m
Christ himualf.
Shatov 1c: able to 1:21ng what inner state Hunt have
been there in the body of Josue. which gave him the ﬁght to
speak the nerds:
"I am the light or the world.“
He understood
thfg‘t chm-1:31: 10v“: Am" and thie 00min "1 An?
should be in every
humn "I An“ and than "111 112100 the real religion.


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

A“: ‘...-.‘..
m. chokhbv
Septembﬁr 2‘2, 1939
The philouapﬁoz-s throughout the agar: who have
‘ diuousnodvaguely tho nxiatanco of Gad are no? dangerous
for Shaﬁov, because he has a vary clear eye for thc "I Am. "
When ho upgglga about Christ ho npqnﬁa with tho sumo feeling
uéyvpoxi hovlvupnu‘lm‘ 0.12318: another "Illa.” but indrcuuud a
lnillicn times.
. Kiriiovand 'Chticttam for Shatov the bane
nature because both um “I Ana."
‘ chrigt in the comic "1
“arm Kirilcrv 1:110 earthly "I An.“ but they are of the same
‘ndi'uro.
This it; tho. basis on which Shatov stands and no one
can dislodge him.‘ ’
'
New lot uo look into ﬁlm soul of Vorkhovonuki._
What
do we con there?
Va can that IVorIthovcnaXri has beutiful apoc-
tncleu. but. no byes.
Ho cannot sea the life-he only uoos
through his spiritual opbamcloa all tho detail: and fine
manifestations of life bu? not the life itself.
That is his
spiritual face - ho is not only A ucoundrclvand a inurdhror -
ho really soon.
He soon manifestations of mind. of hﬁman
society. of everything w-hothc'r 9:313. or 12113. but if he looks
:11: u tron in the spring, for instance, he soon that the true
~ is getting bigger and bigger and that itu color changes and
that spring brings a certain mﬂamorphoaia on tho edfth' -
, he soon Junt as Shutov noes, but he duet: not see why it grow-u.
‘what changes it, what power.  
Through his sycatucleo Vorkhuvenski seat: that there
is a process of growing which can be calculated. fixed and


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

M. Chekhov
September 22. i939
understood. an e manifee‘batien of the life. while another
person. who in not a Vcrkhcvcnnki. would say he 2931;; the
life which came.
Just as when I move my nré,‘ I knew that
it is my life which moves it. no there is a. thing which moves
the lcnvco. opens ‘thon. 1:11:00 them become rec and full dorm.
Voi‘khevenolzi in not able to ace {me life. therefore;
everything around, him in bereft of life - everything can be
taken with hie hands.
Shatov can and mum: be taken with hie
hence and. gunn.‘
Hie npprcnch to life is thai: when he seer:
the mnifaetatien of 11:0 and begins; to calculate. ho becomes
a vex-S; interesting synecn of thoeghts and figures, and theeo
figures are everything for him.
His eyes. hie earn. him
ccnecieusneua. hie hchrt, his gun - these things are every—
thing for him.
He ueee cluirvoyantly only one aide of the
life - only the :mifcsmtim. but not the life. itself.
He
sees that there in a brain sitting in the head arm thie brain
» preducee thoughto duet an a flower produces fragrance.
_
Verkheveneki does not one the “I An" which Shntex}
acne. and only seen the body - the hunzm body. the body of
society. the mnifea’cnticn of life and nothing hd'yend it.‘ He
thinks that these manifestations of life can be changed.
I
guided. forced. Just as a. plan can be - when u can produces
wrong things by meant: of his brain. it must he changed.
If
it can't be changed. it muet be destroyed. and that is an.


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
SAM
m. Chekhov
'
September 22_. 1939
Shntcv sees the “I As“ an the most precious thing in the whale
world. and he connects it with the comic “1 1m" poesonslity
and individuality of Christ - Vcrkhorufegeski sees the manifest-
ation of life and believes that everything. if it can be
gmUpﬁdi him be changed.
I
.
‘
How in“: us 1001: at Stuvrogin's soul - it is absol-
utoiv empty.
The emptiness which Stavrogin experiences is
not the emptiness of s 1312311 being - it is the emptiness of
a great spirit. ehorofom. ho goals himself extended. and ex-
panded over the whole comic Genes. but still he is “empty.
Ho tries to £111 himself wish certain content - whether it is
God. or Vorkhovenski'o ideas. or the strange child Earths -
he would say yes to anything if it could fill this eﬁp‘tiness
which rakes his so aimlessly mndoring.
H0 is looking and
seeking for comm centent.
This big omﬂneos is Stavrogin's “I“ - he looks
around overwhero st visible and invisible things with thin
emptiness ~ he does not spprcach tutorial things with the
feeling that he Imam-is. for instance. that this is a chair.
Ko approaches it with emptiness and with the terrific tor-
turing feeling,
"I as told 1:th it: is a chainbu‘t I don‘t
\mdorstand it. I don't know that it is 80.“
Everything for
his is s new thing.
He approaches the chair with his whole
big emptiness and embraces it. keeps it inside of his and
says.
“No. it is not.“


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
  
m. Chekhov
'
September 22. 1939
Then again e great terrific emptiness comes upon
Stavrogin. he approaches Vetlihevonski and takes him into his
soul. otherwise he would noﬁ'be able to prcneunco the solile-
‘Jw in the ”nighthro scene" - he does accept his and hears
what he says to him. but it is o. painful experience to have
Verkhovonski inside of his emptiness.
eo' peihfullthst he Imonswwm’
something mum: be wrong. so he thronsﬂhln away. 'But one thing
remains in his soul after he has kept Verkhovcnski in him for
n time; he finds s certain thing which corresponds to his own
emptiness - ii: is a certain possibility to become any]: As”
because Verlzlhoeonski's idol is something which an: sunken in
this big" emptiness e certain ”I Am“ A- “I as the Idol.‘I
Why
nee?
He wants Its 135 an “1 Ah”- bdt he does not knew how.
Verkhovcneki says to him."!ou are our Idol - our I An.“
But being so empty and sobig in his emptiness.
Stuvz‘ogin feels that this “I As" is not “hm: he in looking
remand he sonnet live with it.
He knows ﬂat he will always
be smaller fhen he could be because not! his emptiness embraces
everything. the whole world.
So he' denies Vorkhevenshi's "I
Am.‘r
Then he sppmn'choa shatov and takes him into his soul.
-
and he finds there is something which attracts him immensely —
he loves ShatovI. that is why he comes to him. wit it is the
idea of religion whieh‘repuleashis.‘
It is something which
   
 
he Zjannof. accept. beeaueeggfi‘ssiéion seems to him to come from
outside as a series of laws and commandments. therefore. he
14::


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
 
L1. Chekhov
September 22. 1939
cannot accept it,
He romaine empty becauee he cannot accept
the wrong kind of “I An." and he cennot accept Shutev'e kind
because of the 1mm in the fern of religion coming from the
outside-
stavregin does not eee ixi Shaﬁov'n point of view the
hum "I An.”
He done not see it because he has his own “I
An“ already and does not recognise it.
He hue in thin greet
céptineee - which in a kind of cluirveynnce which enables him
to oppreach everything and to em}. “I don't know but I uuet
experience."
such 1: 13:33.1. teething": Au" which cite in him
like a spider which eueke hie Mood. and this tiny “I An“ he
carriee with him hie wholeqli‘fe.
This: little spiritual epider
ifercee him to preheat againet smtov'e oer-thy heme "I An“
beoeuee hie spider wants to «mini: audio live. and thn‘é in why
ml ie no euperior with everyone becauEe thin spider commando
him why he negleete everyone and everything: Lice. Slatev.
Verkhevcnnki, 5mm. hie mother. everyone. because this epider
whispere to him
“Let me live because _I am so happy to live.“
But at the gene time be cennoi: eeo thin spider within him.
When he comes to the stranger with his great emptiness and
open!) himself. he gate the fin-11: general feeling of semething,..._v_,.m
which in very were. just me in Shnﬁev‘s soul,
So withinlr the frames of out play he one Stevregin
no the very interesting and difficult human type.
h‘e nee him
extended through the whole world withhie emptineee - this


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

NM
M. Chekhov
September 22. 1939
emptiness which is his “I" and the little spider which is
his “I An." which sits in his end deco not allow him be
approach the right things.
What is Lisa?
If you will hoop those four powers
in your imglnoﬁon. you will see that this composition of
powers holds the whole play together.
If you listen to the
wind in the outﬁts}. you will hear in it a note of such poin-
ful sorted: - if: nevor finds the solution of itself ~ 11: "is
flying and crying. and nothing can stop thin pain in the
nature.
A restless opirlt - a spirit which has no limitations.
”-7. .- M.
which £15.03 everywhere and cannot stop. cannot find the solu—
tion. cannot be comforted.
new ‘Bum this wind to the imgo
or fire. and you will get the arché‘wpal of Lisa - are
which is blown by the winds withnolse. tremendous crying.
and at the some time ﬁromcndouo warmth.
{gut in she seeking?
For something. or somebody,
which can accomplish her. which will stop her crying life.
She is not able to help anyone. mo needs help.
Therefore.
she never helps StavrogEnolthough she could give his so such
warmth and feminine feelings. she could accomplish and fill
the emptiness of Stavrogln. and he could give shape to this
wind-fire and include he:- in his being if the spider could be
killeo. and she could kill 11:.
She needs help and he needs
help. and they do not give it.
She always tries to take more
and more beluga into her crying. flying over the whole world.


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

«H
0.9
11’?
w w”-..
0,”. ..
”\“J? C
M. Chekhov
September 22. 1939
She taken them. and they disappear, and she 13 looking for
others for the same purpoao.' Nothing con help her.
If Shatov could plunge into Lim'o_sou1 aha say.
"I An.“ she would become a. rcai‘huzan being.
But as she ham
no basin on which to stand - no fire and air. oho buma every-
thing and everyone around her - aha bums Stuvro‘gin.‘ she-z burns
Dtocdev and herself. and when she disappears from the play.
there in no end—'thio figure goes away and dimppcnrn in
. what?
Again into this crying. flying over the earth - fire -
earth.
Lit: can be doncribod on the crying beauty which
everyone of
112‘: mobut in D. emu degree — everyone has this
autum mood and fire.
But Lisa incorporates it onfire, on
air. on a human tragic beauty.
‘
I: you will try to imagine these four figui-ou tor»
gather. you will ooo 110:1 they spark. mm the qualitico' of
Shatov are no complete inr:conpariuon with Vorkhovchoki. and
hon Varkhovmoki‘o qualities are roliovod by the comparison.
How shatov and Lisa complement each other.
If you. will see
the characters with the urtiot—nctor' n clairvoyant oyoofand
really coo what their main lino in. what their spine in. how
they look after we look at then with the decision to one the
inner spring of all those thing-go, Who in Stavrogin?
A human
being with a spider inside him;
who in'Shotev?
A human being
with one hand lifted u}; to the greater individoal, himself.
I
Who in Verkhovonoki?
Ho is a grating sound. a human


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
H351
. him;
In. Chekhov
September 223-4. 1939
being who is not 0. human being 7 ha 10 posnenood.
And who
pooaouooo 111-13?
Tho tronondouo archetypal of ooperr-an under-
hurmn brain nod nothing more.
clairvoyantiy we would any
that when Verkhovcnoki uppearn. this a conu‘truotion which
rauombicn the bum bmin and nothing more - no logo. no
' eon-a. no more. nothing but tho imitation of a. brain walking
amoﬁg pooplo.
It in 110?. 0. human being.
Who 1:: Lisa?
5110.10 aloe not a human being. in the
some that she in o. 'guporhumn being but not perfect
S_ho is”
I
looking for incomomtimu'. she needs 'anothoz- to bo’éomo incor-
porated.
She is owing for incorporation; ghe in not yet on
tho oarth. she 10 otill in the forests. flolda, and tho cecal-1:” v
She can take different foma.but unlike Undizoo. nho cannot
kcop then.
She is always in nov‘o:ont.l
Perhaps I undo a mistake.
n‘c fho beginning of our
school. when I told the otudon't'o not to approaoh their york
with understanding. but minor witﬁtho inaginntiom
This
1310mm) occunod because I did not; understand the tumm-az
an only against madoroftundmg with Vorkhovonnki'u brain. with
his kind of thinking.
For instance, you can read many books
about Kim, Lcur, but it will not give you anything as an actor
or an artist because that in Vorlthovcnski'o approach —.to
describo the manifestation of life. but not life.
I never meant to any don't \mdcrntﬂnd..th6 chnmctor,
A but simply flounder in tho amouphotc - but I tried to warn


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

1.
~21
K)
J”;
m. Chekhov
.
,Supteubor 22. 1939
you against the means with which you must understand.
’ I
armed gun to not: at the came time you mdomtocd.
It is
absolutely noconnury to mdomtnnd the hintory'. the epoch
of “tho play." But if we only mdomtzmd it with Vorlrhovcn-
nki'u brain. it will no“: affect our uﬁiutio nature.
When
I my ion't vex-1: intellectually on the plug}. I don't mean
dnn't {macro-mud thé part - you .12th undode iho par‘é. co
the doptho but understand it with your wludqm vﬁ'éjtlon which
in deeper. which embraced more than z‘eénon and 1111202510“.
OODC’O‘DO
