

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Ealichael Chekhov
July 2. 1937
FEELING 0F TRUTH
THE INTELLECTUAL APPROACH “
FEELING 0F TRUTH - OBJECTIVE - JUSTIFICATION
FEELING 0F TRUTH:
with regard to the feeling of truth,
I am not able
to explain why art is art. and why the imgination has the
right to create things which are unnatural, and why we have
fantasy. or why we have imagination, or will power, or hands
and arms.
This is the question of a previous life for each
of us.
For instance.
I am sure that Eleanor is gifted. but
in some previous life she was so intellectual that she killed
some part of her artist's being.
Let us imagine a very simple thing such as the dif-
ference between photography and art. for instance.
Photography
is compelled to take everything as it is, whereas the artist
knows joy only when he does not have to repeat things as they
are.
The artist has to continue the process of creation.
John's work in the fairy tale has nothing to do with photog—
mnhv. and Eleanor has been very helpml to him. which means
that she has an approach to art, but she also has a very strong
intellectual approach.
THE INTELLECTUAL APPROACH:
The question as to whether we ‘must kill our intel-
lect or not can be answered in this way; we must not kill our
intellect, but we must use each capacity in our psychology.
Therefore, we must not kill our intellect and become more


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

3i. Chekhov
July 2. 1937
idiots. but we must postponq the work ef‘the intellect until
later on, when it will be very useful to ma.
It must be
under tho control of the artist, and not the reverse.
Our
whole method must be understood through the intellect. but
never aunlied through the'intellect.
Therefore. we must not
kill the intellect but the intellect must be put in its place.
If we talk too much about those things it will
only make our approach more and more intellectual. so let us
take an example from John's fairy “tale, Two Kinns.
Do'this
some with atmosphere - not naturaliatically.
The intellect
hae nothing to do with it.
We will try to find the feeling
of truth in it.
If you will understand the feeling of truth
as a sense of reality. or aesthetic consciousness. or what—
ever you like to call it. you will understand that the intel-
lectual definition will give us nothing. and will only lead
us to discussions.
The way to understand the feeling of truth is with
our hands and arms, our legs and feet. and every part of our
body - Ell! will understand what it means to be truthful. or
aesthetically satiofied.
Therefore. you must stop thinking;
about this problem. and exercise by working on it at home as
well as in the studio.
If John had thoupht too much about
his play. he would not have been able toiorcate it.
You must
remember that the feeling of truth must penetrate into your
body and your voice.
It is possible if you exercise it.


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

f-io Chekhov
July 2.
193?
Now do this small scene from Two K'
as. by exercis-
ing the feeling of truth. which you must arouse.
Fay atten-
tion to it - that means exercising it.
The feeling of truth
is of great practical help to the artist. but for the intel-
lcct it is something very constrained.
It is important not
to notice what in wrong. but to be very happy about the right
things, then the fooling of truth will grow;
Repeat the scene,
taking the objective;
"To find the new king," with the condi-
tion that he is somewhere in the air.
Then add the objective:
"To put the boy on the throne." with the condition that you
must not awaken him.
Now do the same thing for justificatien -
"why"
- thin must penetrate into our bodies and permeate them.
Through them three means - feeling of truth,
ob-
jective. and justifiation - we must help ourselves to find
the way not to be ntupid ﬁnd precluded. which can happen if
we try to apply the objective, the feeling of truth and jus-
tification by means of our intellect - this will turn the
whole problem upside detm.
{New play. every type of play is another surround-
ing for the same feeling of truth. which is like on instinct.
This is not a contradiction.
The difficulty is not in the
different styles of the plays. the difficulty is whether we
awaken in ourselves not an artistic feeling of truth, but an
intellectual feeling of truth.
The intellect is always steal—
ing the things in our soul. and trying to make use of them in


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

M.
Chekhov
July 2,
1937
its own way.
Instead of leaving it in the artistic realm.
the intellect tries to steal‘this beautiful feeling of truth.
and apply it in an intellectual way.
Here is the photographer.,
and here is the artist.
