

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
THE PENCIL
Memories of Dartington Hall and the English Origin of the Michael Chekhov Acting
Method
DEIRDRE HURST DU PREY
tape-recorded, transcribed and edited by
Diane Caracciolo
Adelphi University
Garden City, NY 11530
caraccio@adelphi.cdu
Deirdre du Prey’s corrections and changes have been incorporated by Julia Busser du Prey
in January 2002.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

INTRODUCTION
1 was born on July [6, 1906, and I think it was rather an important day, because my birth
took place in ajbrestﬁre. My mother was in a little house bearing me, while myfather was
on the roofwith the neighbors, trying to put theﬁre out. We were in tall, standing timber,
and it was sunmter, and there/ore very dangerous, but all went well. And as my sisters
used to say, 'S'he was born in aforestﬁre, and she’s never stopped burning. ' Why, I don’t
know; but I always had all kinds ofﬁre in me, which had to be expended.
It is not surprising that ﬁre should be tlte earliest image associated with Deirdre Hurst du
Prey, as lter devotion to her mentor‘s teachings, particularly those regarding the creative
imagination, still blazes despite the outer frailty ofher 94 years. A number offortuitous
events combined to bring about the crossing of destinies between Deirdre and Chekhov.
First, growing up in the wilds of Vancouver in the early decades of the twentieth century,
her family befriended Russian e'migrés, such as Michael Gounderov Rosinsky and Prince
Volkonsky, that often had ﬂed to the Northwest via Harbin, China. As a resulg Deirdre,
although never speaking a word of Russian, developed a feeling for the language. This
sensitivity served her well in her later work with Michael Chekhov, who wrote to her from
Hollywood in 1946, "My English is as bad as always, and it was only my confidence in
you-that you would understand me—which gave me the freedom to express myself without
any inner difﬁculties.“ Loss of her father to typhoid fever left her mother the task of
raising three little girls alone in a strange country, except for her young Shakespeare
theatrical cousins. At her widowed mother‘s insistence Deirdre learned some practical skills
in the event that she would not be able to make a living in the arts, particularly dance,
although her mother valued the arts above all. As a result, she developed a skill for
shorthand, which allowed her from 1936-1942 to take down verbatim every lesson and
lecture Chekhov delivered in formulating his system for English speaking actors in
Dartington Hall, England and later in Ridgeﬁeld, Connecticut. These lessons account for
hundreds of pages of largely unpublishei original material, which currently comprise
Deirdre’sT/te Actor is the Theatre: A Collection ofMichael Chekhov's Unpublished Notes
& Manuscripts on the Art ofActing and the Theatre. These notes became the foundation
for Chekhov‘s original manuscript for To the Actor, and canted Deirdre the nickname The
Pencil, for the essential instrument that she still keeps nearby in the folds of now white
hair.
Deirdre’s pursuit ofa career irt dance led her to the innovative Comish School for
the Arts in Seattle in the early 1930's. Although she had a good relationship with Miss
Nellie Comish, her difficulty in modem dance lessons taught by a rather harsh member of
Marie \Vigman's company, ultimately led her to the School of Dance Mime in Danington
Hall, Devonshire. Here she began the lifelong friendship with Beatrice Whitney Straight,
whose parents, Leonard and Dorothy Elmhirst, had founded Danington Hall School and
community in 1926. This encounter led to her eventual meeting with Michael Chekhov.


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
What follows is the story ofDeirdre Hurst du Prey's early years in relation to the
birth of Michael Chekhov's acting method for the English-speaking world. This narrative
is based on tape-recorded interviews I conducted over a period of several months in the
spring of 1999 in Deirdre’s home in Westbury, New York. After transcribing the seven
sessions, which fill approximately 100 pages, I condensed and edited the individual
narratives to create a uniﬁed story by omitting or moving sections to avoid repetitions and
to clarify their chronology. Additionally, I made small word changes or additions when
necessary to clarify meaning without losing the natural cadence and charm ofDeirdre’s
narration. (None ofthese changes are signaled in the text that follows.) I have included
footnotes to aid the reader in identifying some oftlte characters mentioned, for Deirdre’s
long life in the ans brought her into contact with many important names in early twentieth
century cultural movements. Above all, I hope that any student of Deirdre's will recognize
her unique and colorful voice in the following narrative, which opens a window not only
into the genesis ofthe Chekhov method and the early years at Dartington Hall, but also
portrays the often undocumented weaving of relationships and events that form the life of
the artist. The tribute given by Mark Tobey to Nellie Cornish applies as well to Deirdre du
Prey: "Among her gifts was her ability to choose and have faith in her teachers. Once
chosen, her loyalty to the teacher was as consistent as day follows clay."2
Diane Caracciolo
Adelphi University
Garden City, NY
August, 2000


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
The Pencil:
Memories of Dartington Hall and the English Origin of the
Michael Chekhov Acting Method
Deirdre Hurst du Prey
Edited by Diane Caracciolo
I was born on the outskirts of Vancouver, in that strange and wonderful place,
British Columbia, right on the Paciﬁc Ocean, so powerful -- the sense ofit opening up into
other wonderful countries across that ocean to the Orient. In those days, we befriended
many Russian refugees who settled in Vancouver, and although I never learned a word of
Russian, the cadence ofthe language and the effort to understand it was later to come into
excellent account when I met Michael Chekhov.
I was born on July 16, 1906, and I think it was rather an important day, because my birth
took place in a forest ﬁre. My mother was in a little house bearing me, while my father
was on the roofwith the neighbors, trying to put the ﬁre out. We were in tall, standing
timber, and it was summer, and therefore very dangerous, but all went well. And as my
sisters used to say, "She was born in a forest ﬁre, and she's never stopped burning." Why, I
don't know; but I always had all kinds of ﬁre in me which had to be expended. I've been
told that when my youngest sister Muriel was born, the old nursemaid brought my sister
Phyllis and me in to see the new baby. When we were put on the top ofa trunk to look
down on the mother and child, I started hopping andjumping around, and the old
nursemaid said to my mother, "That one will be for becoming a dancer." And I just kept on
dancing until I was able to make a connection with the Cornish School in Seattle. In our
teens my sister Phyllis and I became junior members ofthe Little Theatre Movement in
Vancouver, with the encouragement ofour mother. I think, frankly, that's where my whole
life in the arts began.
When I ﬁrst met Miss Cornish I found her to be a delightful middle-aged woman,
absolutely devoted to the art world. She was determined to bring art to the children of
Washington State, and a wonderful American artist -- Mark Tobey, who was livingin
Seattle, helped her1n that endeavor3
Nellie Cornish and Mark Tobey had similar visions,
and they began what was called the Cornish School, which became very popular. Miss
Cornish began then to be able to attract very prominent teachers from all over the country
and abroad. Mary Wigman, the great German creator ofthe modern dance movement came
with her company to Seattle and stayed quite a few days to give us some lessons.4
She
was a very dynamic person, and Miss Cornish would have loved to have her come and take
over the dance department. But ofcourse Mary Wigman couldn't do that, but she left a
member of her company -- Lore Deja .. who was a very good teacher, but a very difﬁcult
person to handle} She was very unkind'in pointing out our poor points, the few ofus who
really needed more encouragement than we got from her. For me it was absolutely
unbearable.
I stood it as long as I could and then I ended up in hysterics, and I said that's
an end ofit.
I'll just not put myselfthrough this anymore.
I think actually she was
probably right that I had studied so long by myself, and with rather indifferent training in
Vancouver, so that I had a style ofmy own. Very disillusioned, I went to Miss Cornish and
told her ifMiss Deja was returning, I wouldn't be coming back. When she asked me where
I would go, I said, "There's a notice on the bulletin board with three black ﬁgures in a


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
strange, modem pose. And that little introduction says, 'Evening of Dance Mime in
Dartington Hall, Devon, England.‘ That‘s where I hope to go." She suggested I write to the
Elmhirsts at Danington. Beatrice Straight, Mrs. Elmhirst‘s daughter had been at the
Cornish School.
I remembered that when I hadjoined the school in the fall, I kept hearing
this name "Beatrice."
I would be continually hearing about "Beatrice." And there was a
little group of about seven students who were always talking about the trip that Beatrice
had given them.
I couldn't understand who this Beatrice was, but now I knew. So I wrote
to Dartington Hall and told them my background, that my mother was a widow and that she
had raised three of us, and also that my father was a Yorkshireman and that I had relatives
in Yorkshire. In later years I decided that probably they were interested in my background
because it was rather unusual; also the fact that Leonard Elmhirst was from the very next
village in Yorkshire where my father had been born. I got a letter back inviting me to join
them in England. And so my failure at not being able to conquer my problems at the
Cornish School in Seattle was the opening ofa door into a whole new world for me. I
believe this was my fate.
That October I departed on the lie dc France, and I was a little nervous at what I would
ﬁnd at the end of the trip. We arrived at a wet Plymouth at dawn and when the boat was
ready to pull away I was still standing there, a sad, solitary ﬁgure, with my trunks and bag.
All ofa sudden my feelings and my energy seemed tojust run out ofmc with the rain. And
I thought, "Oh, what have I done!" To be here alone with no understanding of where I was
and what I was going to do.
I really felt very lost on that wet, wintry morning.
And then I
saw a car coming up at quite a speed, a most elegant car. It seems to me, remembering
now, that the top was down and there was a beautiful girl in the car wearing a beret and a
tweed coat. She pulled up,jumped out and ran toward me. She was so apologetic. She
said, "I'm Beatrice Straight.
1 should have been here much earlier to get you, but I was
doing the same thing as this yesterday morning, and this morning I missed being on time.
Anyway, get in; we'll soon be at Dartington." We got into this elegant car, drove along
these lovely roads, until we arrived at a remarkable place, absolutely remarkable. We drove
into the courtyard and there was a magniﬁcent collection ofbu1ld1ngs all around the
courtyard. The day was just beginning for most people, and I was taken to the quarters
where I was to have a room.
It happened to be a modem building where a kindergarten
was held everyday for the children ofpeople working on the estate. But the one floor had
been reserved for the students ofthe school of dance-mime, which I wasjoining.7
And so my work began.
I had to take all the classes, which were music and art and
puppetry and dance, of course, and quite a number of other classes.
I would be required to
go to all ofthem. But also, I was to assist Beatrice Straight in her position as manager of
the little company that had come out ofthe classes in dance-mime, and so I had rather a lot
on my plate. It would take time for me to be included in the magic circle, which
surrounded this beautiful person Beatrice Straight, the owner ofthe ear that had brought
me from the ship. But I did2gbccome very familiar with the person who taught the puppets --
Dicky Odlin, an American} He began to give me things to do, and seemed to ﬁnd me
humorous. Ididn't think I was humorous at all. Iwas still feeling lonely at this time He
encouraged me to come along, and when the group around Beatrice jumped into her car, I
jumped in with them. From then on I was a regular member ofthe inner circle, which was
very charming and delightful and highly exciting to me because we were always doing
something attractive. We would go on the moors and have picnics. Marvelous food


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
baskets would be put out for us in the kitchen in the Hall. We would drive up to the moors
and roam around, following the tracks ofthe tin miners. It was very wild --just cattle and
horses and very few settlements.
I loved it all. And we always got wet. The rain would
come on and we had to seek a place to hide until we got the car going again and offwc
would go.
Life nowjust took on the most fascinating aspects for me, although I had a great
deal to do in the way of adjusting myselfto the classes and trying to catch up with the other
students. That began a wonderful connection, which has lasted up until this time. Beatrice
and I are still friends and are still in touch with one another. Many ofthe other people have
gone, but we seem to have lasted an exceptionally long time, and have been close friends
without ever a quarrel all those many years.
All these wonderful things happened to me in 1932, when my whole life changed.
The minute I stepped into Dartington Hall there was a whole new world there for me to
experience.
I fell in love with it immediately, with the people, and experienced it fully. I
came there at a very important time in the life ofDartington.
It was still under great
criticism from many forces. What they were really trying to do was establish a community
in which everything necessary would be provided. There was a very modern school that
was much criticized. The students would go down into the River Dart, which was just at the
foot oftheir school buildings, and go splashing in there naked-boys and girls. And that was
really a little bit too much, and it had been splashed across the papers at times, references to
what was going on at Dartington Hall.
It was a very serious endeavor on the part of both
Dorothy Whitney Elmhirst and Leonard Knight Elmhirst to really help a way of life to be
reborn in modern times.9
They had a modern school, and they began to use local farms,
the chickens, the eggs, the apples and cider and all the things that could be made in the
community, and of course, education. Dorothy said the children of the people working
there had to be educated, and there were new ways of education that they wanted to
experiment with.
Artists were attracted from the beginning. Beatrice had met Mark Tobey in the
Cornish School in Seattle, and he was invited to come over and be the resident artist and art
teacher. There were music people and dance and drama. We had two different schools of
dance, one very modern; the other springing from Dalcroze eurhythmics. Ellen Van
Volkenburg Browne directed our plays, Margaret Barr and Louise Soelberg taught dance.
It was an absolutely extraordinary collection of artists and interesting people that were
attracted to it and gathered there. One of the wonderful things for me was Sunday evening
lecture gatherings in the beautiful solar room, part ofthe medieval building.
It was really a
small castle, or fortiﬁed manor house. We would gather there and have authorities from all
over England come down and lecture and had various kind of entenainment on Sunday
evenings. You couldn't be at Dartington without being very deeply in love with it and in
harmony with it or else very much against it. There were people who were very much
against it.
It was, ofcourse, a terrible time in England, when the economy in Britain after
the war was so terrible that people were hungry. Tltere was just a great population of
people that were not being properly fed or taken care of. Often on the road when Biddy
[Beatrice Straight] and I would be driving around, we would see a little family with all that
they had in the world piled on to the baby carriage, mother and father and children trudging
along. These people slept in ditches and hay ricks because they had no houses. Many
times Beatrice would stop the car, and we would get out together and go over and ask them


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
where they were from and wltere they were going. She always put her hand in her pocket
and pulled some money out and put it in their hands.
I remember once getting into the car
and tuming round and seeing the expression on the face oftlre man and woman when they
looked at tlte money that she had put in their hands. They had probably never seen in all
their lives so many pounds.
It was a very interesting time, and a very cruel time, a very
gn'm time. But Danington was a saving place for a great many people, and it had to
struggle against criticism.
It was just a wonderful place to be part of, especially those early years. Then came
the suggestion that the dance school should give over to another group that they had heard
of that were wandering around Europe with no place oftheir own, because it was the
beginning ofthc troubles in Germany, and the hatred ofthe Jews. The 10055 Ballet was
wandering around without a home because they had Jewish members in their company and
Kurt Jooss wouldn‘t dismiss them. One was the pianist who was responsible for creating
the music for The Green Table ballet, which turned out to be a magniﬁcent dance.lo
So
they were invited to come to Dartington. And that rather pushed out the little school of
dance-mime, which is what I went over for. But neither Beatrice nor I had the capacity to
be dancers, so we decided to go to America to spend a year in the theatre world and try and
see ifwe could ﬁnd a director who would come and lead the theatre group at Dartington.
That brought us to New York. It was at a very lively time, a time when the Group
Theatre was going very strong in New York. Beatrice was going uptown to Madame
Daykarhanova and Madame Ouspenskaya, two Russian teachers with whom she was
working.11
I was going down in the lower depths, I called it, 14th Street, where there was
other theatre activity going on.‘2 We got a message by cable telling us to be sure to see a
very great Russian actor, who was going to be performing in New York. We immediately
made inquiries, and it was, ofcourse, an announcement of Michael Chekhov appearing in a
play on Broadway with a small group of Russian players. We knew nothing about him,
really, except through our Russian teachers. And they were very excited at the thought of
seeing his work on the stage. So we went to an opening, and we were absolutely
thunderstruck. We could never have imagined seeing acting of the kind that evening.
Beatrice said afterwards that this is the man we should really try to get for Dartington.
Aﬁer watching Chekhov perform for several nights, we were taken back stage and met
him. People were waiting to speak to him after his performance. On one side was Beatrice
in her tweed coat and her beret. And on the other side was one ofthe members of the
Group Theatre, all dressed up in very fashionable clothes. She wanted to talk to Chekhov
and ﬁnd outjust what his plans \vere--would he come and work with the Group Theatre for
a while? And Beatrice, of course, wanted to offer him the opportunity to come and create a
theatre at Dartington. He knew that the Group Theatre would merely make use of him, and
that when they had got everything they wanted from him, there would be no future there If
he were able to come to Danington Hall, where he was offered the opportunity to have a
school and a theatre ofhis own, he would be experiencing the desire ofhis life. His dream
was to havejust such a theatre group to train in his method, and to be part ofa community
where his work would be seen and appreciated. Following this occasion much talking went
on between New York and England, and Mr. and Mrs. Elmhirst came over from Danington
and met with him, and all the plans were laid for him to come in the autumn. Madame
Daykarhanova made it possible for him to give Beatrice and myselfa few lessons during
the day when he was not performing. ofcourse, Madame Daykahanova had to interpret


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
because he didn't know one word of English, except "Howdoyoudo." He would say that to
everyone with a slight bow. That's what he knew--"Howdoyoudo." But he was very sharp.
He would give Beatrice and myself some criticism as to how we were, what we were
lacking in movement-a feeling of movement, and that sort ofthing. He saw me making
notes »— I was making shorthand notes, as I always did of any classes I took, -- and I
remember feeling that he was looking at me. I think that he thought to himself that girl
would be a great help to him in writing his book. I always had a pencil in my hair -- I called
myself the pencil -- so that whenever he wanted to start writing or reading to me what he
had written in his very bad writing, I was there right beside him.
The lessons were very interesting, but then he had to go on tour. I think he went
down to Washington and various other cities on that tour. When he came back he went up
to Connecticut where there was a gathering of homes of Russian theatre people, where he
could go and be surrounded by Russians who were attempting to speak English. There he
could devote his entire time to perfecting his English, which was essential, ofcourse, if he
was going to be able to create a school at Danington.
He began that work with his wife Xenia. They went up to the Connecticut area,
while Beatrice and I headed out crossing the country, and stopping at all the theatre groups
and universities where theatre work was being shown. We stopped long enough to see what
plays they did and the general atmosphere of theatre in each place. We worked our way
right across the country. We had a station wagon, and Bcatrice‘s mother had it all
beautifully ﬁlled with cooking things, pots and pans and blankets; not enough as far as I
was concerned. We could drive across the country and stop where we wanted, put up our
little station wagon and sleep in it or on the ground, which we did many times.
It was a
very interesting trip that we had, and very rewarding because we saw quite a lot of theatre
work. We went down to Hollywood, and saw theatre there at its highest, or busiest at least.
We then worked our way up the coast to the Cornish School in Seattle, where we were
greeted by old friends.
We all got back together in England in the autumn, and then Beatrice and I started
out on a trip to the Orient, leaving Michael Chekhov and Xenia in a lovely little home for
themselves, given to them at Dartington. He became, of course, a very quick student of
English, and then began planning what he would do in forming the theatre and in
interviewing people, who would be interested in coming to the theatre group when Beatrice
and I came back. The interesting part of this search for students was the number of
applications that were made from students in America. We put my sister Phyllis in charge
ofthe New York ofﬁce, which she organized with the help of Madame Tamara
Daykahanova, whose oﬁice she moved into. Publicity was sent out, and people could apply
for auditions. Phyllis would then arrange dates when two members ofa company that had
come with Chekhov -- Jilinsky and his wife -- could come and give auditions to applicants.
‘3
It paid off because we got one or two students who came and stayed with us for the
whole history of the Studio. It was absolutely a shot in the arm for what was going on in
England because things were much slower over there. There were fewer applications,
because we brought Chekhov into Danington at the same time that Gielgud and that group
of young actors were making their presence felt in London.
It had not been so up until that
time. People that might have come to us from London and other parts of England tended to
go instead to London, which was at the heart ofthings. So we had serious problems


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

surrounding the number ofapplicants. As a result, the ofﬁce created by my sister Phyllis in
New York was extremely helpful.
Beatrice had wanted to go to the Orient for quite some time and planned to do it
before she would be encumbered with all the work that would have to be done to set up a
theatre studio at Dartington. We didn‘t choose one of the very large ﬂashy P&O liners. We
Chose a small line, which would be putting in to all kinds of ports, which was actually what
we wanted to see. We had really a remarkably good time on the ship and met with some
nice ofﬁcers in the British Army who were going back for the long trek up into the
mountains as they were part ofsome ofthe famous regiments. But they were all very
charming. Being two of the few young girls on the beat, we had a very nice time, though.
I got rather a bad reputation because I was constantly reading travel books. Ireally wanted
to know where we were going and what we might expect to see. Beatrice didn‘t care, but I
did. And so I would be reading on deck, and not playing games with the ofﬁcers that
wanted to be entertained before they set out for those hill situations that they were facing
for several years. So it was altogether very interesting.
Ceylon was lovely. Oh, I thought it was absolutely beautiful because they were a
great supplier of tea, and we saw great farms of tea drying and being made ready for the
market. We had several scares -- probably a small leopard or tiger that leaped over the car
in one of the drives that we were taking. Then we had indications that there might be
snakes. You know it was not really the safest place to be. One night we were in a small
hotel, with pouring rain.
It was very close in the little place where we were given
accommodation to sleep. Beatrice and I went out in the dark, at night. Well, you know,
when I thought aﬁerwards, the roads were water and all the rest ofit -- bound to be
hundreds ofreptiles. But Beatrice was absolutely devoid of fear, and I was absolutely
filled with it, so somewhere in the middle we met, and we were able to go along and have a
very good time together. But we did an awful lot of traveling, and that's when we met up
with Uday Shankar, who was the great exponent of Hindu dancing. 1‘ He introduced us to
many people. The doors were open because he was very highly regarded as recreating the
great wealth ofIndian dance, which had been practically abolished by the British.
Rabindranath Tagore, who we visited later on, gave full credit to Uday Shankar for
recreating the dance in India.
We had a wonderful time when we took the train right up to the top of the
Himalayas, Biddy and I, for Christmas. And, oh, the view ofthe seven holy peaks!
Although we were not allowed into Tibet, we did go on a trip with a holy man from the
nearby monastery. He took us to spend the night in a government shack, a little room the
government puts up, and you can stay there and see the sun rising on the holy peaks. You
see them all at one time. I often close my eyes and see myselfstanding up at the Himalayas
and looking down, layer upon layer ofterraced landscape. They were growing their crops
there, very strange ~ there wasjust one step after another down. In my dreams I‘ve had
recurrences of those pictures which passed across my eyes and my mind as I stood and
looked at them -- the seven holy peaks of the Himalayas -- quiet, absolute quiet -- only
little tinkling bells ofthe men with their goats or donkeys going up into the Himalayas with
salt bags strapped either side, the animals quietly walking,just single troops ofthem
walking quietly up into the Himalayas
We crisscrossed the country quite a lot, following Uday Shankar‘s performances.
\Vherever he was, we liked to be there because he would always introduce us to people of


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

10
some renown. Biddy and I then went on from India to Sumatra. That was very interesting
because we had a letter of introduction to the Crown Prince, who was a very great dancer.
Boys of that particular royalty were all dancers. They even devoted a whole evening over
to giving dances for Beatrice and myself, which was quite remarkable. We saw dancing
that we would never see again. We went all the way down and out as far as Bali where we
had a little cottage to ourselves. By this time we were very aware that the Chekhov Theatre
Studio was not going forward as fast as we had hoped. There were many, many problems.
Biddy said, "I simply must go back. Darling, I'm going to have to ﬂy. And I know you
don't want to ﬂy. You stay and come back by the boat. And it will be all right."
I said,
"No way. If you're going home, I'm going home too.
It would give me no pleasure to be
shuttling around ifyou're not there. What fun would there be?" lsaid," I'll go on the
plane."
I rememberI never had enough pocket money. That was always my problem, as I
was always very anxious to pick up beautiﬁil things. We saw so many of them and I had
seen a lovely little ring that I wanted. I hadjust that much money left.
I looked at it and I
said to myself, “no — I'm going to take out an insurance policy for my mother because I'm
going on a plane!"
We were ﬂying for days with no landing ﬁelds. We came down at sunset and went
up at dawn. And we ﬂew for ﬁve days. Can you imagine? Sometimes I'd look down, and
there was a whole herd of elephants I saw down in the jungle. I said to somebody later on,
that I'd rather not fall down in there. I‘d rather fall down into the ocean ifwe have to come
down.
When we returned to Dartington Hall Chekhov immediately told us what the
situation was -- that things had not gone forward as quickly, and he was very distressed by
it. We went at once to work. That spring of 1936 he gavejust the two of us a series of
eighteen lectures in order to prepare us to help him with the teaching. I went to help
Chekhov with preparation of scenes and material that he wanted to use in his teaching and
Beatrice took on the task of making it known that we were going to have a school ~-
making lots ofpublicity about the school. And when she said something, it got done. The
most beautiful little booklet had come out about the school.”
Chekhov had all the work
that he wanted to give us to do, such as sections from Shakespeare and other writers, but he
couldn‘t get anyone to help him get it together. That's when I moved in to help him.
From
that time on I helped him until he left for California, and even when he was out in
California. We never lost touch until he died. Never anything questionable, no sexual
involvement or anything like that --just a very close, very deep, very profound love -- he
was papa, I was mama. And it was like that until the very end.
We began to get letters from various places -- Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa, Europe and all over, people applying to come and decide whether they
wanted to join the group or not, and whether we wanted them.
It was a very interesting and
a very serious period oftime. We got twenty students all together at the beginning and
began our work with Chekhov in October 1936. It was such inspiring work. Chekhov was
such a wonderful teacher, very demanding, of course, and so we had to work very hard.
When he came in the morning we were all gathered around in our lovely blue practice
costumes and our blue slippers, so that everything we did had a special quality about it.
Some morning sessions would be on gymnastics or lessons with one ofthe teachers ofthe
Jooss Ballet. And speech. We did a very great deal of speech with Miss Crowther from
Australia. We really achieved a uniﬁed theatre speech. We were noted for that. Then there


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

11
would be music classes and body movement and various other things that he considered
necessary for us. We were working all the time. We had to take a scene and be entirely
responsible for everything to do with that scene-sometimes write the material for the play,
or ﬁnd a play that could be adjusted. Then we would give performances. Saturday
mornings the people on the estate at Dartington were invited to come and watch our work.
We had a balcony and beautiful, big rooms. They had been, of all strange things, big rough
buildings for cutting up timber. There was much timber on the estate, and they needed
timber for re-roofrng some ofthe beautiful old buildings when they were restoring
Dartington Hall, which was a ruin when they found it. So there was always some activity
going on in these great big wooden buildings. It was decided to take the woodworking
department to another part ofthe estate, and these great big wooden buildings were left
empty for our use. We moved in so that we had a huge space in which to do our exercises
and work on plays.
Chekhov taught us to have a profound love of and respect for the theatre and for
what can be brought to an audience through the medium of the theatre by the quality of the
actor. The actor must be trained to love his profession, respect it and to give ofhis whole
being to his audience. Chekhov said, for instance, that when he was in Russia at the height
of the famine and the tremendous cold, when people would come and crowd into the
theatre and stand so that they could scarcely breathe, what the actors did on such occasions
Wm send out love into the audience with their acting. That was for Chekhov what acting
was all about —— that you could reach people, that you could feed them with what you were
doing, you could feed their spirits so then they could leave the theatre with a sense that
there was something that they could ﬁnd-that they hadn't reached the end.
I think that one ofthe most important things Michael Chekhov left us —- his gift to
artists everywhere -- is the need to develop and to feed the creative imagination.
It is a
world of its own, and the artist has to live in that world. This world ofthe creative
imagination meant everything to him. Because with that you could imagine anything, and
then you would try to achieve it. After we had worked on scenes, and he'd given us
corrections, and after our great and marvelous lunches, we would lie dorm (very often fall
asleep), and at this time we were supposed to go over our scenes in our imaginations so that
the character himself would suggest things to you. You would gain from that another
aspect of the character. The character itself would speak to you and tell you how to
behave. That was whatl would say was one of his great contributions, the world of the
creative imagination.
Life at Dartington was a wonderful period for those people that were fortunate
enough to be there. In 1939 we were about to do Twelfth Night, but we knew at this time
that serious things were happening in Europe, and Chekhov, because he had lived in Berlin
and in Paris and in Latvia and Lithuania, sensed that there might be war. So it was decided
that in as much as we had a very curious combination of people from all parts of the world
in our company that we should go to America, which we did. '6
Beatrice found us a wonderful home up in Ridgefteld, Connecticut. Beatrice was
always so lucky .. she knewjust what was the right place. She found a boys' school up in
Ridgeﬂeld that had been abandoned because of the awful Depression that America suffered
just a year or two before. The school could not survive it. The boys had to leave, and the
school closed down, but it closed down with all its furniture and its bedding, everything
complete. We just moved in, and Beatrice, with her great taste, was able to get nice


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

1')
curtains and fumiture, which came from the family estate in Old \Vestbury. It was really a
very nice building with very large rooms for rehearsal. And there was also a small building
lower down on the side ofthe hill, which had been the gymnmium for the boys' school, and
we turned it into a small theatre. There we could work on a stage and try out all our plays
before we took to the road.
We came into New York City with one play, The Possessed from Dostoyevsky, and
it proved to be way beyond the understanding of the public. America was not ready at that
time for the problems of Communism, which were in this performance. Theyjust didn't
understand. They were very much impressed by our acting, and particularly our voices,
and the beautiful speech that we had on the stage. But they couldn't understand much of
the content ofthe play. However, Chekhov bravely decided we would go on the road. We
would take TweIf/h Night and a children‘s play. We had twenty people all together in a
company, traveling by station wagons. And we performed at schools, colleges and various
groups and places where they wanted performances. We were very well received and it
was a very good experience for us. Then we would come back, and start again to do other
plays to take on the road. We were really doing very well until, ofcourse, the war broke
out. Chekhov knew that our boys would be called up, and they were.
It was impossible to
take other actors who were not trained in Chekhov's method into the company and go on
tour. The touring fell through because of the war. We couldn‘t get tires, and at one point
we had to use tires that had been patched. We were coming down a road in Oklahoma, I
think it was, such a dangerous road, and we heard a tire go. We ran up the side ofthe road
and turned over in the station wagon.
I was in it -- eight people in all. Everybody was
absolutely quiet. Someone felt the door, pushed the door open and we all got out.
It was
very frightening, and I was not at all unhappy when Chekhov wanted me to stay with him
and ﬁnish the work on his book.
I started right at the very beginning working with him. Whenever we could get the
time together, I took notes. He would write in a very peculiar way. He had very little use
ofEnglish in a written form. His spoken English was good otherwise, but writing was very
difﬁcult. So I began from the very beginning working with him on everything that he
wanted written. And I stayed offthe road.
I did not go on the last tours, but stayed and
worked with him on his book To the Actor. That's how it got done.
When the Studio closed at Ridgeﬁeld all of its ﬁnancial and business records were
safely stored in the stables at the Elmhirst/Whitney estate, “Applegreen,” in Old Westbury
on Long Island. When the estate was sold in 1953 no one knew what to do with the records,
and on the last day of the auction they were put on a bonﬁre. My own record of the classes
we had attended with Chekhov along with much else fortunately remained in my care.
Editor's Postscript
The fomiidable shorthand record of Chekhov's 500 English language lessons that
Deirdre Hurst du Prey kept from the Studio's inception in Dartington Hall in 1936 until its
disbanding in the United States in 1942 forms the manuscript archive she has transcribed
and calls “The Actor is the Theatre." lt served as the basis for Chekhov's manuscript
“Michael Chekhov: To the Actor,” which he completed in 1942 with the help of Deirdre
and their colleague Paul Marshall Alan. A heavily edited and popularized version ofthis
manuscript, one that omits much of the author‘s unique spirituality and artistic vision was


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

13
published in 1955 by Harper Brothers as To the Actor. This version leﬁout most of
Chekhov's references to the Austrian philosopher Rudolf Steiner, in particular his ideas
regarding the art of speech formation and harmonious movement (eurythmy), both of
which were regularly taught at the Chekhov Theatre Studio in England and the United
States. The late actor Hurd Hatﬁeld, an original member of the Chekhov Theatre Studio,
assisted Chekhov in writing a chapter on speech formation and eurythmy, which was left
out ofthe ﬁnal form ofthe book published in 1955. A revised edition, which includes some
ofthe earlier edited material, was published by Harper Perennial in 1991 under the title 011
(he Technique ofActing.
After completing her work with Chekhov, Deirdre became a successful and much
loved lower school teacher and drama director at the WaldorfSchool of Garden City, New
York, where she opened the doors ofthe creative imagination for several generations of
children that passed through her classroom. She also taught graduate courses in drama for
the Department of Speech Arts and the Children's Centre for Creative Arts at neighboring
Adelphi University. Deirdre has lectured extensively on the Michael Chekhov acting
technique in the United States and England. She has published books and articles on the
subject, most recently a transcription ofthe earliest lessons Chekhov gave in English to her
and Beau-ice Straight in 1936. Deirdre has mentored many young theatre students and
teachers interested in understanding Chekhov's method from one of the only remaining
members of his original English company. She is currently working with her son,
Professor Pierre du Prey, toward establishing a permanent home at Dartington Hall,
England, for her Michael Chekhov Theatre Studio Archive.
Notes :
1.
Michael Chekhov to Deirdre Hurst du Prey, Hollywood, 21 February 1946,
included in “The Actor is the Theatre: A Collection of Michael Chekhov’s
Unpublished Notes & Manuscripts on the Art ofActing and the Theatre” by Deirdre
Hurst du Prey, Westbury, NY, 1978.
Mark Tobey in Miss Nellie: The Autobioemphv ofNellie C. Cornish, ed. E. Van
Volkenburg Browne & E.N.Beck, University of Washington Press, 1964, 272.
to
3.
The American artist Mark Tobey was unknown at the time he was recniited to teach
art at the Comish School. He eventually moved to Dartington Hall to teach an at the
community, but maintained a close friendship with Nellie Comish. According to
Michael Young, who has written an in depth history of Danington Hall, Tobey
discovered “white writing,” his unique painting style at Danington. (Young, M. The
Elmhirrts ofBurlington, 222).
4.
Mary Wigman was one ofa number ofintemational ﬁgures in modern dance who
guest taught at the Cornish School in the 1920’ and 1930’s. Others included Martha
Graham, Louise Horst, Ronny Johansson and Michio Ito.
5.
Lore Deja, member of\Vigman’s company, arrived at the Cornish School in fall
1930 and taught modern dance there for three years.


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

10.
11.
l3.
14
One ofthese buildings was the Barn Theatre. Walter Gropius, who founded the
Bauhaus, completed the ﬁnal stages ofthe conversion ofthe Hall’s barn into a
theatre.
In 1925 the Elmhirsts purchased Danington Hall, a late Mr}. century manor house in
ruins and the surrounding four thousand acres. The restoration ofthe main hall and
the construction of living quarters and a school were done in stages and took several
years. Eventually the estate contained buildings that housed numerous educational,
artistic and agricultural endeavors.
Richard Odlin was a student at the Cornish School where he ﬁrst learned to work
with puppets. He later toured and taught puppetry at the Cornish School as well as
at Dartington Hall.
The Elmlrirsts were working within the British utopian tradition that held education
as a key in the creation ofa peaceful andjust society, founded on shared manual
labor, non-conventional spirituality, and the creative life. At Danington there were
to be no uniforms, corporal punishment, compulsory games or segregation of the
sexes. “Everyone, staff and children was a member ofthe household, as garden and
farm were part ofthe household economy.” Rumors ofnudity and food ﬁghts in
the staid and conservative Devonshire countryside attracted rebels such as Bernard
Shaw, whose son attended Dartington. (De La lglesia, ed. Dartington Hall Sc/iuol:
SmﬂMemarie: of(In: Early Years. Devon: Folly Island Press, 1996, 118)
Fritz Cohen, Jooss’ principal composer and musician. In July 1933 10055 refused a
Nazi order to release Cohen and several other Jewish members of his company. In
August he was forced to ﬂee Essen, Ger-many where his troupe was situated.
During an earlier London performance of the Green Table, Jooss had been invited
by Dorothy Elmhirst to join the community of distinguished artists that she was
drawing to Dartington Hall. After ﬂeeing Germany, 10055 brought his company to
Dartington where he introduced one ofhis teachers, Rudolph Von Laban. Laban
stayed there from 1938-1940. According to Young, the English phase of Laban’s
work inﬂuenced British education by incorporating dance as a part ofprimary
education.
Tamara Daykarlranova and Maria Ouspenskaya had been members of
Stanislavsky’s Moscow Art Theatre (MAT). They were living in America at the
time Deirdre and Beatrice studied with them.
. The Workers Studio, directed by Benno Schneider ofthe Habima Theatre.
Andrius Jilinsky and Vera Soloviova had toured the States with the Moscow Arts
Theatre and worked with Michael Chekhov in Paris. In 1935 they came to the US.
as members of a Russian emigre theatre group—the Moscow Ans Players. For
more on lilinsky’s teaching see Mary Hunter \Volf’s article in Laurence Senelick,
ed. Wandering Smrr.


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

15
14. Uday Shankar was invited to perform and teach at Danington Hall in June 1934.
This connection led to Beatrice’s and Deirdre’s trip to the Orient and helped to
initiate his school in Almora, Uttar Pradesh. Shankar’ s integration of \Vestem
teehnigue with traditional forms helped to revitalize the art oftlte Hindu dancein
the 20
century.
15. One oftlte original publicity pamphlets, the Prospectus, introducing the Chekhov
Theatre Studio is included in Deirdre Hurst du Prey’s archival collection.
16. The Chekhov Theatre Studio remained in Dartington until the threat of war sent
thetn to the United States. Their farewell performance in England was in December
1939. They relocated in Ridgeﬁcld, Connecticut, where Chekhov intended to bring
the members ofhis Studio to another level, and engaged in an energetic course of
rehearsals with the goal of mounting a Broadway production. The Chekhov Theatre
Players presented Dostoyevsky’s The Possessed in October 1939. Dorothy
Elmhirst was to play the role oers. Stavrogin, but had to leave for fear of being
separated from Dartington Hall during the War. The play received mixed reviews,
to Chekhov’s great disappointment. He had hoped to give the performance as a
waming about the dangers of the communist revolution, but felt the American
public was not ready to understand the depth ofhis method and the complexity of
the Russian story. Beatrice Straight received good notices, however, and she went
on to have a successful stage and ﬁlm career after the Chekhov Theatre Players
disbanded.
References :
De La Iglesia, ed. Dartington Hall School: Staﬂ”Memories oft/16 Early Years. Devon: Folly
Island Press, 1996.
Du Prey, Deirdre Hurst, ed. “The Actor is the Theatre: A Collection ofMichael Chekhov's
Unpublished Notes & Manuscripts on the Art of Acting and the Theatre,” \Vestbury, NY
1978.
---. Preface to Lessonsfor the Professional Actor by Michael Chekhov, compiled and edited
by Deirdre Hurst du Prey. NY. Performing Arts Journal Publications, 1985.
»--, “ Michael Chekhov'tn England and America,“ in Laurence Senelick, ed. Wandering
Stars: Russian Emigré Theatre 1905-1940. Iowa City: University of Iowa Press, 1992.
--- and Julia Busser du Prey, eds. Michael Chekhov Lessonsﬂir Teachers ofhis Acting
Technique. With a preface by Deirdre Hurst du Prey. Ottawa: Dovehouse Editions, 2000.
Van Volkenburg Browne, E. and EN. Beck, eds. Miss Nellie: The Autobiography ofNellie
C. Cornish. Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1964.
Young, Michael. The Elm/tints ofDartington: The Creation ofan Utopian Community.
London: Michael Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1982.
