

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

michaol Chekhov
April 12, 1942
Lecture at Labor Stage
New York
THE PRESE€T STATB OF THE THEATRE - HOW TO HELP IT
RUSSIAN THEATRE DURING WORLD HA“ I
THE PRESENT STATE OF THE THEATRE
TIME FOR PREPARATION OF THE PART
TIME FOR CREATING THE GimRACTER
SHAKESPEARE'S CHARACTERS
'
THE STAR SYSTEM
ENSEMBLE 0R GROUP FEELING
THE Aurora's PROFESSION
THE POWER OF THE CRITICS
THE THEATRE OF THE FUTURE
Othello
RUSSIA“ THEATRE DURING WORLD WAR II
Let me tell you about the theatre in Rueuie at tho
utart of World War I.
It was almost the main function of the
theatre at that time to serve the army. and all of en were
acting wherever possible in the front line.
At tho.uumc
time. we were acting in different factories. making upeeches
to workers and uoldiotn and engaging in every Kind of
activity we could develop from the theatre.
I noticed that
neither the soldiers nor the workers were very interested ln
tho pIayu in which we were trying to ehcw them the war ituelf.
They wanted to 000 thingu which were not at all connected
with the war.
The name wan true in the factoricn when no
spoke to tho workern they always tried to lead us. by means
of their quentienn, away from the theme of the war.
That is
all I wanted to add to the theme of how we can serve the war
effort.1


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

n:
m
H. Chekhov
April 12, 19h2
THE PRESENT STATE OF THE THEATRE:
New for the theme itself.
If I speak of things
which are not just what yau want to hear. you may stop me
because I am not sure whether it in Just the theme.
If one
levee the theatre and has n vluion about it. then there are
two thingn which occur in ene's mind.
One is a very frank
and free and perhaps not pleasant criticism of the theatre
in its prement state. and the other is haw can it be helped‘
If I am able to speak about both thingu at the came time,
I
will.
First. the pain or criticism which I have while
looking at the theatre in that the nainupring of the theatre.
the actor and the director. are alaven of the clrcunstancen
of the present theatre.
I daubt that we actonc and directors
are doing things which yo believe in. or are able {0 do.
From all sides.
in different dSDguicea and masks. we hear
only unc thing - you are not allcwed to do thin. you are not
allowed to do that. it will not be accepted. that in not
.
right. you cannot do this or that.
Lastly we hear much
wordn. but do nothing for the theatre and in the theatre.
TIME FOR PREPARATION OF ThE FARTI
First of all.
I can only speak in general ternu about
this because I am not competent in it. but the idea will be
clear.
‘Wc are not allowed to rehearse and explore the play
more than four or five weeks.
If that is what we actors and


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

hi
("I
H. Chekhov
April 12,
19h2
directora want, then I havo simply to ho client. but I am
sure that thin in one 0f the moat killing things in the
theatre at tho prcuent time.
I cannot believe. being myaolf
.an actor. that I can really create a part in five weeks.
I
can deceive nyuolf. and the majority of us do deceive our—
uolvca by accopting this ccndition to prepare a part in five
weeks.
I dcccivo myself and my audience by thinking that
tho crcatlvc process can be accomplished in flvo weeks.
Juct
what can be done in five weeks?
We can remember all our old
habits and cinchdc, and rc—shlft them in a new position. but
thorn in no creativomerk. and we don't even try to create a
new character because ﬁindrinctivcly we know that in flvn
weeks no human being can crcatc anything.
TIﬁE FOR CREATING THE CHARACTER!
You may any that for modern characters. which are
created by modern playwrights, there in no need to work more
than five wooku because the characters are so familiar to da.
so near to us.
That is a great mistake.
he character is
near to us until we have changed ourselves to become the
character. and in five weeks we cannot change curaclvou to
the uxtcnt that we can say comething new.
interesting. and
revealing to tho audience whilo performing this mcdntn,
"us—
if" well-Known character.
This in a kinﬂof photograph.
If in five weeks we


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

0';
(W
H. Chekhov
April 12.
19b2
pertray one of the characteru of the modern playwright, we
make a photographic picture from the author's book, and in
the majority of caecu. as far as I can ace, the author has
always done a better picture than we because he has taken
time for his creation.
The author has been dreaming about,
it, he got angry. he get happy, but he get this character
without being told he had five weeks, then stop!
But we
assume we have to take this photographic picture and then
ﬁhink we have added something to the author's werde.
I don't
think we have added, and eemetimeu I think we have spoiled
it.
smmspmns's CHARACTERS.
In Shukenpcaro'e playn - if Eacbcth or any other
character can be created in five weeks; I don't believe in
Shakespeare.
The actor may be very good. but then Shaken-
pente must be very bad;
If Shakespeare cannot open in the
actor's ueul new things which the actor did not know before
he took the part. then Shakeeyeere is nothing and the actor
is nothing.
Shakespeare's playé are things which have to be
dincovered in enchcenturyc in each time. in each new day
which we experience anew.
Shakespeare in like a bombshell
which has not yet exploGed.
,
Every one of us actors can discover in Shakenpcarc
thingu which will be new for Shakespeare and for no as actors.'


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

E. Chekhov
April 12,
19u2
How Othello loves Dosaemena — I don't know whether in five
wcoku we can get the idea of this.
We can know how we love
or loved. but none of us are Othellos. and why Othello being
in love, and being jealous openke such words as he speake.
that in the problem.
It in not enough to take our own
ability to love a girl, and Othello'e words. and put them
artificially together and appear before the audience on the
etago.
That in chaos.
Either we must not take this part at
all. or we have to find Othello'e love. which in no? at all
like ours.
To find Othelle'u love one has to work not five
weeke. but for I don't knew how many weeks, then Othello'u
words will become the neter'u words. and he will not be able
to act Othello without these words.
But if we really try to
penetrate into the imaginary actor's mind who has erepared
Othello'e part in five weeks and spenku theec wards of
Othelle'e. I think no will discover that in the actor's mind
he is eaylng, “To hell with these words - I can express it.
much better in my own nay."
This in point onei
by circumstance we are not
alloved to work more than five woeku.
I don't believe in it.
and I don’t believe the theatre can ever develop in the right
way without breaking this barrier.
Of course. this in the
problem of Unlonu. etc.. and here I am not oompctent to sneak,
although I knew that all much zhinge are important in candid-
ering the question of a time limit for our work.


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

m. Chekhov
April 12. 19U2
Then the Box Office has a mighty hand - all those
people with the psychology or Box Office people - this in the
thing which really killo the actors'
efforto. but they change
our psychology. and they take our money.
We begin to believe
in the Ben Office. and the Box Office begins to be for us an
authority and that in much more dangerouo than to try to pre-
pare Othello in five weoko.
It means to become more and more
blind and to say that it in right that the play muut have a
ouceeoo and that We must earn money by it - for whou.we don't
know.
We must have A gooﬂBox Office. and then everything
will be all right. but nothing in really all right.
THE STAR SYSTEHI
Hon for point two:
the star eyetom in eur_thentro.
This in another dongcnouo point.
So one can any that there
are not store or that there ohould not be.
Quite the opposite.
There are store because there are so many gifted actors. and
they must be there. but around these utnro there in again 5
certain kind of unspoken agreement.
The modern star in an
isolationist.
The psychology of the modern star is.
“Dent
disturb me."
And tho psychology of all of us surrounding the
star in.
"If I do something.
the audience will perhaps laugh.“
Thin psychology is wrong for both oideo.
For the stars
because they degenerate in their psychology and their art.
being alone in the desert. as it were. and it spoils the psy-
chology of those of us who are around them because we think


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

D\ \5
\\ LL
m. Chekhov
April 12.
1942
it in our proper work to serve the stars.
I don’t think that everyone who enters the stage
in n potential etar.
If our business on the stage is only to
enter and any.
"The carriage is naiting,',
even thin nentenco
and appearenco gives the actor the right to appear in a proper.
correct way and to be preqont on the stage.
just as the star
himself in.
In all canoe - not only in ouch an extreme case
where the person has only to any one word - in all cases.
ovary actor hen the right to have u sufficient amount of
rehearselo, and the director's attention. and tho aodionec'o
attention. and to be able to be in full harmony with all the
partnern on the stage, including the star himself.
ENSEMBLE 0R GROUP FEELING:
The ensemble. or the group feeling as on why call
it, is one of the most ocuentiul and inspiring thingu for no
no oetoru.
If we don't have thin feeling and this joy of
being together and creating together. than iixgust say that
we have not yet got the opportunity to enjoy and to develop
our profeoaion to the fullont extent.
Bocauue the theatre
in a nrefeenien, and perhaps the only one, except for the
orchestra. where everyone hue to be in harmony with everyone
eloo.
If thie possibility in not given - now imagine for a
moment how wrong our poychologylboeoneo and has become.
We
think that the star hdo the right. the psychological right,
to be there alone and that we have no right to be connected


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

”-5.
(1/
JV)
ﬁ. Chekhov
April 12.
1902
with the star and with everyone else.
This poison which we
have already taken in our brain. and begin to believe in.
this business of isolating the actors — on the one hand the
star. and on the other hand one of the slaves or servants
who has to be humble because he is not s star - when we
begin to believe in this theatre. we are already blinding
ourselves.
THE ACTOR‘S PROFESSION!
If we went to develop our profession and our art.
which is a grout one. perhaps tho greatest one because the
instrument which we are playing on is we ourselves. with our
thoughts. our feelings, our will impulses. our emotions — our
joy. pain. love. forgotten tragedies and coming tragedies -
it cannot be found anywhere else.
Even the violin. which is
such a gentle and subtle thing. is not what we are.
So our
profession can be the greatest one I believe. but certain
wrong ideas and psychological mistakes must be killed.
One
of them. which I have mentioned chore. is that we have to
act for the Box Office in five weeks of rehearsal, and the
second is that we have to'be isolated and serve the star, who
is also isolated.
THE POWER OF THE CRITICS)
The third point is that.
in the modern theatre, we
are not allowed to meet and to face the audience.
Between us


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
Lz. Chekhov
‘
.
April 12. 19152
and the audience in a row of chairs filled with critics. and
they give the command to the audienceuwhnt they have to see
tomorrow in the theatre. and the audience believe: in then.
They don't permit the audience to hove its poruonal opinion
of thingo which it in going to ace tomorrow.
If so-end-oe
had written that it in bad. the poor audience thinks that it
is bad.
The audience is kept from us by the criticu. and we
cannot face the audience because the audience is not brave
enough to have its own opinion.
And what can We do on the
stage?
The audience in there. and we are hone. and we knew
that nothing will be taken from the stage. and we don't get
anything from the audience -neither inopiratien. love. or
confidence - nothing because the audience has received the
order from the critics how to react to the performance.
We actors know only too well that things which we
feel at least in the depth of our ooul and conncioueneee,
"my God. how bad it i0." how deetnéctivo for the present
audience it is. nn$2¥§o thing is accepted.
I don't need to
speak much about it becauoe it 15 so obviouo.but thin in the
third point which seems to me to be more than danger - danger
can be avoided. this is in already a fact.
Each newsPapcr
every day hills us.
If the critic writes about a bad thing
which in good, and a good thing which is Had,
it in just the
same thing.
So there in nothing to be happy about if the
bad thing in praised, and the Box Office gets the benefit from


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

‘A/
(v
(‘4
m. Chekhov
‘
April 12. 1942
it;
So the whole effect is a Killing one.
That the audience believes in the critlca is dotrh-
mental and cannot he cured so easily. but 33 begin to believe
in them.
If the critic says it is good or bad. wo begin to
believe il, and this is our mental discaao.
Wo muut cure
ournclvco and find ourselvoo and to brave enough to say that
it in bad. hut we must alao be ahlo to say that it 10 good
and be happy in saying so because we believe it.
Of course}
there are many things which enter into this situation.
We
depend upon them — we have our umbiticno. our fémlllos, our
difficulties to consider. and this makun the critico stronger.
and we have to lintcn to than. and obey them Ebro than we
would like to.
THE THEATRE OF THE FUTURE:
Thoso three things:
1. Lack of time for rehearsal
and preparation, and tho Box Office problem]
Z.
The star and
tho isolationist psychology;
3. The critics - these three
-
thingu are rooted very dcoply in our modern cultural life and
cannot be changed overnight. of couran.
But still it seems
to me that they can be chhngcd. and it 15 my pornonnl belief
that they will be changed.
But how?
The only way I see 15 a long way, but still a way.
It is to find in tiho such a group of actors. or groups of
actoro, who will.£irut of all. go through this pain of realiz-
ing how it is with them and the theatre.
Through thinking


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
m. Chekhov
'
April 12.
19I+2
about it. through realizing ouch fucto an I have mentioned,
and othcns through tho pain because without pdin nothing will
come of it.
Through pain and despair, if this group of
actors will unitu themselves and try to work no a group for
the ideal performanccu,
ideal from every point of view,
ovoryono could have an ideal and almost each ideal would bc
all right if tho group of actors will work towards it.
Then
ahow their porformanco.
If we have no money and no one will give it to no.
than show the portormnnco in a small room. in a cafeteria,
without costumes or make-up. simply to show this tremendous
desire to overcome these difficulties. those voices around
us which toll us we are not allowed.
If thin utrong spirit
will bo thorn and will be shown and mointainod as long an
it is noccunary - and ncybo it will be very long - if this
now life and spirit which much come from the pain on the
one hand. and the inspiration of nhcwing tho theatcc of the,
future on tho other hand - if this will be done by a group of
aotoro.
ioneoru. than I believe in cvorything.
Then it in
just tho some for me. whether it will happen tomorrow or in
ten yearn. or in twenty yoorn.
or in fifty years.
I will be
dead then. and will not see this great event - it does not
matter.
It is not important who will soc it. it is important
to know that it will be there. and tho actor will become tho
actor with all the rights which the actor has, and will create
the thontro which it is worthwhile to create.
