

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
October 29. 193?
THE INSPIRER
AHTICIPATION
ARCHE’I‘YPB
IIFPROVISATION
Old Students:
To be able to not rhwhmicaﬁone must be able to
improvise rhythmically.
After this term we will perhaps be
able to start on the work of improvisation in connection with
rhythm. but it would be too soon now.
It would be wooden and
imposed, which is always the way when this is given to soon.
and it would also spoil our efforts in connection with improv-
isation as improvisation.
-
THE INSPIRER:
2902‘ Gmtl
You must know quite clearly what our aim is in this
exerosw.
Our aim is to be able to open our doors to the in-
opiror. to the audience.
To be relaxed psychologically and
physically and. anticipate what we are going torsho‘u .to our audi-
ence. and to do it quite technically.
We must not look upon
this thing as a performance - don't confuse the two things.
The longing of A53. is very strong before death.
To have the
boy with her. and to die near him - this is a tremendous diape-
son.
You must work for much more celorﬂxl and powerful sug-
gestions from your inopircr.
,
If.
for instance, we start on some play for our reper—
tory we must be emzy from naming to evening with the ideas of
this play.
We do not do this at the moment - we only touch on


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

L'n. Chekhov
October 29.
1937
the sketches from time to tine. and only as exercises. there-
fore we cannot expect the same power as we would have if we
were working on a. performance.
There were many characteristic efforts during such
work on the feelings.
Ono of them was to get the bigger scale.
Tho effort was right but we were able to see the scaffolding
of this effort - there were only bones - it was bare.
If we
work more and more on this effort the skeleton will have more
flesh and finally an aura. but this requires imagination and
effort.
The effort we have seen, and we must appreciate it
at this time.
Without effort we will never got the scaffold-
ing, and without the scaffolding we will only have a mass: of
flesh.
Repeat the scene.
Again the same thing.
If we have
the right idea about our Method. we shall see at once that in
order to elaborate this. scene we need continuous inaghaation
and objectives, etc.
If both actors, both characters, had been
clear about objectives. how much it could have given then!
And
atmosphere. how much it could have given. and imagination, and
oimificmco as means of expression.
Therefore, by working
yourselves. by looking at the actors as though you were the
director, as helpers, as actors you must~o1ways know what is
looking at each moment.
The Method is given.
Ballad inn II n


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

M. Chekhov
October 29. 1937
The same technicalgoxorciso for the feelings - not
a performance - with the some clear idea of what we are lack-
ing and what we have got.
Review what you have soon, as dir-
ectors. actors and producers.
The 1735K 13 CNS-‘30 technical "
I want you to be good technicians today.
Suggestion for Terrence:
Perhaps one thing can be
desired — you Imve had a very fine kind of contraction which
we must understand.
You were contracted and your roar was not
to have contact with the other person.
Sometimes it seems to
us that we are acting freely and well, but we are entirely
alone. and it is difficult to detect this.
"with very experi-
enced actor-.1 who 1011011 the right way. sometimes this is one
of the vary as wozous pointo - to do something and be free
but to sit in 2 stone tower and not even dare to make an attempt
to be with someone else.
This can be done if the actor wishes
to separate himself from others in order to work upon certain
things. but he must do so consciously.
when l was an actor I suffered very much from this
kind of contraction. and therefore I know this problem especially
well.1
I kntm how much it can steal from the actor.
It is
a.
great illusion to feel yoursolf free and full of objectives,
but after perhaps half an hour it occurs to you that you are
alone, and you are suffering; — contraction,
egotistical contrac—
tion.
Suggestim for Blair:
To our mind Blair has taken some


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

M.
Chekhov
October 29,
1937
steps forward.
Remember the occasion when he found this old
man?
Compare this moment with what we have seen today and
you will see how many weights Blair has thrown away. and how
much more free he is in doing so.
Remember how contracted he
was in the beginning, how contracted he was a year ago, from
the technical point of View.
To lose such weights is tech-
nical, and to get such freedom is also technical.
Suggestions for Beatrice:
This is an instance of a
very fine danger which we must know.
We were attracted to
Terrence because he was contracted. while Beatrice was free
and we wero not so much attracted to her.
He were attracted
to her more artistically and felt more free about her.
We must
know as truthful people how to attract the audience.
We must
attract it. leaving it quite free.
Actors know how to attract
the audience by doing very bad things sometimes. but we must
always try to attract the audience by means which Beatrice em-
ployed this time - we don't really notice it because we are
full of some improvisation.
This is again a technical question.
If the technique is right the audience is healthy and happy,
if
it is wrong the audience is really ill.
ANTICIPATION:
Ralledinu I:
Let us continue with the exercise of awakening the
feelings.
Anticioation:
To anticipate does not mean that you
have to find something as a character. but as an artist what
you have to give your audience is what you must anticipate.


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

M. Chekhov
October 29.
1937
The character has its objectives. atmosphere. and other means.
Be quite clear and conscious about what you are doing in pre-
paration for your work with the feelings.
The exoreiso is for i
the purpose of assuming the technique.
You must be aware of
what you are doing as preparation.
ARCHETYPEI
Anticipation is always something taken from the ar—
chetype - the big thing which I have to show my audience through
the whole scene.
or the whole play.
Therefore Alina's antici—
pation of wonder is a good archetype for her.
If you have this
archetype. you will find there all possible original means of
expression.
As far as we are in connection with the archetype.
we are able to find original means of expression because the
archetype always suggests the original and never clichES.
It
is so full of life that you will not be able to find clichés
there.
It is the place where we are able to cure ourselves of
these clichﬁs.
Therefore, the more clear you are about the
anticipation of what you are going to present to the audience,
the more you will lose such cliches.
That is why you must lay
more stress on the antieinatio ;
Repeat the scene. looking into the archetype and find-
ing the image or Alina, who is absolutely busy with the things
around her.
She speaks with the flowers and the rasherries a-
round har. very seriously.
Sometimes we shut the door to the


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

Id. Chekhov
October 29,
1937
archetype because we are unable to. distinguish the elichEs.
There can be qualities of laughter in such an archetype as
Aline's but at the moment the actress is being held by the
laughter she is not able to develop the archetype.
Of course
there is laughter, and everything you like in the archetype,
but sometimes clichés seem to be archetypal.
We must distin—
guish between this.
clieh/es are like Libels, but the arche-
type comes only from the imagination.
To develop the ability to plunge into the archetype,
it is necessary to do some mental exercises.
For instance if
we take the character of Alina. we fool tlmt'she is fresh -
newly 130211.
In trying to find the archetype for this charac-
ter, for example. you must imagine the spring. the first shoots.
the water — little streams of water in the spring.
You must
imagine and keep this picture.
It will give you more for the
preparation of Alina's character than to think of her only as
an image.
All these things are the way to the archetype.
You
must imagine the sunrise. at the beginning when all the dark
mists are leaving the earth and flying somewhere, and the sun
rises just a little bit.
Take this picture and out of it you
will find the quality of fresh wonder.
Then you must magma
animals - the first butterfly in spring. the first bee - not
the second or third bee. but the first one — all these things
will develop the archetype of Alina.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

h. Chekhov
October 29.
1937
For Dalladina it ie the heavy powers which try to
find their way out of her.
You will find this for instance in
the owl in the night.
Keep this picture - there is something
of Ballsdina's archetype in this hidden night activity.
Or
imagine simply some dark places - dark spots.
Imagine a fac—
tory in the night with no one there — all the machines are
standing idle - a watchman's light.
Enter into this factory
in your imagination and you will feel Balladina's devils.
This
kind of imagining will coax the archetypal values into the soul,
and what kind of archetype we have to penetrate into is always
very clear, because as artists when first reading the play or
imagining the part. we guess these archetypes and that is why
we want to act.
So we must penetrate into them quite consciously.
I have seen a very gifted actress who had no idea of
any method. but who was always living in the archetype.
In one
very difficult scene she played the part of a girl who takes
her dress off before an old man who is sitting watching her,
before making love to her.
She has found such a strange arche-
type. that she has done all these things absolutely seriously.
without any shame about her life.
so that she was strange and
charming and as a result the dirty part was taken away absolutely.
We could penetrate into quite another approach. and we had the
feeling that there was nothing dirty at all, only a very great
unhappiness and despair with the girl.
She could have done this
in many different ways, and it would have been at once bland.


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

n. Chekhov
October 29. 193?
common, uninteresting and vulgar. _ It is only possible to do
what this actress did if the person is living in the arche-
type.
It cannot be found through the head. or by touching
.
the archetype lightly — only by nenetmtinxv into the archetype}
The cliche smile, when acting a young person, makes
the person-old.
Children never smile without real interest.
The ollehf.x makes the actor try to show his hfeelings. instead
of letting us feel sympathy for her or him.
The actor does not
need to have sympathy for himself - the audience will have syn—
pathy for him.
If you will really look upon everything from
the point of the archetype. you will find beautiful things.
For Belladina one of the archetypes is that of a. black.
evil
clairvoyant
‘ she sees always the picture before her as a big
objective for her whole life, therefore she sees through every-
thing and everybody.
For instance, when she says,"Through you,"
she sees herself.
when she comes back to reality she says, "Lie
down," and she kills ->she kills everything on earth.
For in-
stance. this can come out of the archetype if you will elaborate
it — such things will be unexpected even for yourself.
II-EPROVISATION :
A family scene with a husband,
a wife, and an aunt
who have become so accustomed to each other that they hate each
other.
‘Jhen they are eating,
everything: makes them angry - how
the wife holds her spoon is something very aggravating for the


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

‘
H. Chekhov
October 29. 193?
husband.
They are unhappy be\causo/ of the aunt and everything.
Develop this scandal and quarrel from nothing.
Another family comes to visit them - father, mother.
husband, wife, and aunt.
When the visitors enter the room the
1
people suppress their anger. but in time they begin to quarrel
with the other family.
They offend them, but having twinges
of conscience they find peace among themselves.
on the basis of atmogheres - first an atmosphere of
depression and than one of quarroling.
It is not tragedy or
even drama - it is simply
a. play between comedy and drama. but
it will be interesting to develop the atmospheres. when the
(
theme is an insigxificant one.
