

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Michael Chekhov
October 2. 1937
CONTACT
ILFPROVISATXON
— INSPIRATION
THE OPEN HMRT
CHARACTERIZATION
liTl-EOSPHERE
Dostoyovsiqr
CONTACT:
New Students:
mercises on contact in which the old students will
join.
The idea. is that when we are on the stage we have to
have a special feeling which we call "contact,". which means
that no aim is alone on the stage, and is never alone even if
he or she speaks a soliloquy.
The actor must get the ability
to be in contact not only with everybody around him on the
stage. but with everything.
Tho properly thought-out setting
is something with which the actor must be in contact.
01‘
course it is the director's business to find the harmonious
misc in scone. but the actor must always have a continuous
fooling of his connection with tho whole surroundings and tho
pooplo around him, not only psychologically. but outwardly
and physically.
This fooling of harmony with everything, a-
round ono is so important that it must be developed through
the whole school. from the simple physical compositions to the
most difficult psychological compositions on the stage -
psychologically we have also a gormosition on the stage.
All the exercises we have for this feeling or har-
mony will take time: we are not able to do than in one day or
one week.
We must have much timo for doing this, but we will


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

H. Chekhov
October 2.
1937
WWW
why you are doing this exorcise; for developing this fine feel-
ing which actors need on the stage. on order to havo harmoni—
ous contact with everybody around them.
Tho highest point to
which we have to ascend in this exercise is that no have to
assume that we will got a certain human psychology.
If I an m actor.
I must understand my profession
from certain points of View, not by just thinking; I on an ac—
tor.
No. it no" .5 that I must have certain points of View
about my profession, and one of then is {that inwardly I must
havo a certain technique - to open myself to everybody and
find tho humn contact - then 1 will be able to bring this
contact on
”co the stage.
This exorcise no will do later. but
no will start with the first vary simplo exorcise.
Exercise:
Take partners so that there are two human bodies which
must move continuously and at the some time. and by moving -
very slowly in tho bcginning - you must find during the process
of moving, the harmonious compositions of the two bodies.
Two students will begin: they aro actors and artists.
They must ﬁnd each oﬁher - wi‘uhout this first stop nobody is
able to establish any contact.
They moot find each othe
, and
this we do by tho means: which we call doing an invisible ges-
ture inaido of us, to open our apparatus for receiving ovary-
thimg which is invisible.
Open your hear-ts and find each other,


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

M. Chekhov
October 2.
1937
not with the eyes, not with the physical senses. not with
touch, because that will only\ give contact in a very primitive
form.
:Ie must find each other as actors and artists, with
those invisible means. and this is the first step we must take
in this simple exercise.
INSPIRATION:
To begin with do not look at each other as it is not
necessary, and if you look at each other continuously it may
disturb you.
Now try to find each other again.
when you have
made this first effort to find each other, begin to move to-
gether out of the feeling of contact,
out of tho feeling of
harmony. and move without my feeling of how you are going to
move.
It will Ere-1 out of the feeling of contact - move to-
gether out of this intangible thing.
Nobody leads, and as 2c-
tors you must :find this Special kind of psychology to believe
in the inspiration which will come.
It will absolutely come
if you find the contact between two creative souls.
Later on
we will have an exorcise in which everything is not so Syn-
netrlcal. but this comes quite naturally at first.
You come
together and then separate. and much depends upon the intangible
inspiration which you will get in trying to do the exercise.
The idea of the exercise is not only not to lose the contact.
but to establish it and increase it strongly.
There is one danger in this exercise and that is to
become sleepy or mesmerized.
Don't do this.
It is better to
have too much will than to get into such a state. because on


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

s1. Chekhov
October 2. 1937
the stage there is never a moment when we can be sleepy; we must
always be active and the contgct between one another can only
be established at the highest point of activity.
We can never
do anything on the stage without being fully conscious.
THE OPEN Hqﬁ§$:do the exercise:
Be quite free, and open your
heart to your partner: do it with your whole activity. very con-
sciously and believe in the power of the contact.
The idea of
the exercise is to find in your souls a point which responds to
what we call contact. or harmony. with your surroundings, with
living beings. with everything on the stage.
The next step‘in the development of this exercise
is to have a leader.
naturally the idea of the exercise is the
same - to find contact with a person who is on the some level
as you are and be led by him.
It is a variation of the some
theme. and will be done by three persons together.
Ono of the
three is the leader who gives some suggestions by his movements,
while the others must find the possibility of making compositions
by following the leader's suggestions.
They must all be abso-
lutely in contacts the leader must not lose contact with the yer-
sons he leads - he must fight with this. because it is so easy
to do.
Now an exercise with four pcogle and one leader — try
to understand how sensitive an actor must be on the stage.
"Road"
the exercise, not only watch it — "read"
it actively.
What forms
and shepes are you leaving as you watch. What streams are filling


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

H. Chekhov
October 2, 1937
the room?
L“: very active by 2'1\3.'tchi.ng; - the more hamony that
is established even for one Second,
the more beautiful is the
whole process.
They must watch and follow, not only the leader.
but each member of the group as wall.
21:: will get this later
when we make a large circle and train ourselves to no]. the cir-
cle, and take everything into our consoiousness.
IF‘U’ROVISATIOIH
Old Students:
The scent) is from one of Dostoyevsky's novels
-
a.
very long psychological novel.
The characters are an old man
who has a wife and a child.
The wife loves him in a quiet way,
but he has been afraid all his life that he would be deceived,
and the idea. has grown so strong that he can see nothing in the
world but lovers,
every-there.
In Dostoyovsky's novels there
are always so many ideas streaming aimulmneoualy, and the per-
son does not come to a simple connection because there are so
many things streaming that they stop it.
in this scone there
is mother man who is without any strong connection to any wo-
man.
la is attractive. and the wife of the pan who is so jeal-
ous knows him through her husband.
The scene takes place at night.
During the night
the husband goes to the room of the friend. whom he awakens,
and asks to have an urgent talk with him.~
The conversation
goes all around the subject hut never never touches on it.
The
friend is wait4
,3 to be told the important thing, but in never


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

.‘xI. Chekhov
October 2. 1937
comes.
when the dawn breaks they are exhausted.
The lover falls
asleep and the husband takes a razor and prepares everything,
but in the and nothing happens; his whole life is preparing -
and then nothing!
The friend awakens and sees the husband with
.-
tho mzor: he takes it and throws it away.
01‘ course the lover
understmds why the friend has come, but he will never speak
about it.
ATMCST-WWW)”Ellis improvisation must be done on the ground of the
atmosphere.
The psychology on the husband's part is a very com-
plicated one. and that on the partof the lover is one of despia-
ing his friend.
Yesterday .you showed the ability to develop such
fine elaborated psycholoar - never lose this ability or fall don-m
into a primitive. straight performance.
CHARACTERIZQEEéEt: the same sketch on the basis of characte
.
The husband has very long. thin noustachoo which are pointed.
eyes which droop down. and a big brimmod hat. very thin.
long
sleeves and thin trousers with the buttons always done up.
The
lover is very happy, he has a pink face. very good body. fair
hair. very free and beautiful kind of movements.
He doesn't
care for the people with whom he speaks.
he has no feeling for
othero,
only for himself.
Something of the lion in in him.
He
does not hide his feelings.
rRho face of the characters, the
make—up, must be composed under the inspiration of the psycho-
logical gesture.
If the beginning is right then the whole scene will


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

A. Chekhov
October 2,
1937
move forward.
sometimes une'pectad things happen on the stage
\
  
and we use these thins
Therefore, we need to be able to es-
tablish a harmony with everything.
The most important thing
in this exercise was that the characters were not used enough.
and what we saw was not based sufficiently on the characters.
The point of the exercise was to have the character strongly
in your imagination first, and then as a geskuro.
so that tho
characiar would come.
You must justify the psychological ges-
ture.
