

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
Michaoi Chekhov
October 5. 1939
”TAKING“ THE METHOD
THE CREATIVE ILZAGIHATION
GOETHE'S "EXACT IMAGINATION”
THE ACTOR'S INSTRUMENT
INCORPORATION OF IMAGES
FEELING OF EASEAND FORM
Gootho
Hamlet
"TAKiNG‘ THE METHOD:
ciooo for Beginners:
E
‘
I
i hope you ﬁre continuing to oxerciao your imagina-
tioh through your work on tho fairy taloo.
You aloo know
uohothing about fho incorpoiation of your imagination.
Now
I ah gdihg to givo‘you nomo ochor points of tho mothod.
Ono
o! the hoot important principles in our school is ohst not
only in tho mothod realiy
ivdn. but it must ho "ﬁgggg‘ also.
and that in your buoinono.
If you think that the Method which
in given can do ovorything. thnt lo a wrong impression.
The
hothod can be uoofnl'only 12 it in 33:33.
By this I man
that you have to exercise ovary day. ectu311y~ovory moment of
the day. then gradually you will uoo tho result of tho Mothod
in that your actor's nature will bceooo more and more dovolopod.
That in our aim.
We want to help you to awaken in your souls and
bodies definite qualitioo and abilities.
We don't want ypu
to “understand” tho method.
To undorﬂtand tho method is the
work of twenty minutes. but it doeo not help.
It will only
help if you wiil take in uhd digest 1t. and live with it.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
M- Chekhov
October 5. 1939
Then you will see that the result will come gradually.'like
the sunrise, and you will feel certain abilities and qualities
which will develop you no actors and will give you such assut-
”‘hmﬁ
anco when you are on the stage - things which you will never
get if you live only upon your giﬁﬁe and accidental things
happening on the stage.
H
I
Therefore. we have a three-your course - if I can
be abeolutoly free with my ideas.
I would any that it is n
twenty—your coureol
Because there in no limit when.ee con
any that now we have evorything‘nnd huvo nothing more to get.
We can and meet olweyu learn in the three yearn during which
we are trying to train our actor's ooul according to my
Method.
Thooe who hove had the ability to get this Method.
only theme will get the certificate.
We will not give a cer—
tificote to thoeetho have not got the Method. even if they
have been twenty years in the echooll
lhe certificate in more
than a shoot of paper - it is my conviction that the poroon
525 do B.
The certificate for no in one of the meet important
pointe in accordance with the Method.
To "take" the Hothod
meone to be able to do it.
THE CREATIVE IMAGINATION .
The imagination in the world wherein you find your
own artietic dooiroo.
The imagination actually ie not a thing
Inhich in sitting somehow in you - the real imagination is a
miracle.
It does exiot somewhere — not in you. but at the


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
a m:
"1
£4.
Chekhov
October 5,
1939
same time it is your own creation.
If you really orouto on
image. and if you will. as): yourself from'whoro the image
comes to you. you must say that it comm from two sidec at
 
once - from the world of tho imagination and from yournelf.
_,~
It is a 21inch in which the outer world begins to be in me.
and winner world is somewhere there.
You will see that by
imagining more and more. that it is e very curiouo and internat-
ing experience when you know that you and not you, are creating
uinultaneouely. and tho roeult of thin thing - you and your
creation -
ie' the imagination - tho 1:350.
~
I will try to doucrihe what Gootho says;
Imgino
that there in a ocience and a scientific approach to the world
of events. etc" where everything in. obeolntely objective and
exact.
That in one rcule.
here is another realm.
Imagination
in tho very common uonoo why. everything in actually without
any laws or objective truth.
Those two things are now reign-
ing over the whole world.
We also actually live in thin great
illusion that thingu are either objective or absolutely free.
in the 8611130 that we have no lime or rules - I on free to do
what I like in my inner life.
Both are wrong. therefore.
there are no many difficnitiee in our scientific and social
life. only becauno of thiegrcat mistake - that there are things
which can bo explored objectively. and there are things which
are the result of free imagination.
GOETHE'S “EXACT IMAGINATION "o


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
'0
M. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
Goethe hao discovered for himself that there in a
third kind of imgination which in Just an exact as tho outer
world. and at the ammo time in no free on the common type of
imagination.
And the work upon the imagination and the science
or oxaot thinking at the some time. ~(gradually bringu us to the
ability to have what Goethe colic: the exact imagination. where
everything is created incur imagination and has, at the sumo
tine. objective truth.
max-Whine; which you receive end .uecept
from the outer world can be immediately saturated uith your
free iragination and this. and only this. in the right and true
creative spirit of the hunzm being.
Therefore. when we open}: about our inaginntion hero
in thie school. we always aim at thin loot point which Goethe
called tho'exaet imagination. Tho whole hethod eheuo the way
to thi‘o‘ exact imagination.
Thie in a little addition to our
loosen on imagination. but try to have this idea of Goetho'o
in mind about the exact imagination.
The time will come when
you will experience it inside of you. and you will recall my
words — when that-co romaine green but etill fantastic. and
tho dragon. which I have created in nxv imagination but which
I have never seen, can be true and objective Just no the tree
in. and thin in the beauty and the watery 01’ the real creative
izagination.
You \‘Iiu'be so happy when you got to thin point
of exact imagination.
THE ACTOR 'S INSTRUMEWI


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
in}
1’)
Ac:
Ma chokhov
October 5, 1939
We have our creative spirit. and we got: from the
world of the imagination certain ordorq which we have to ful—
. fill héro'qn tho otngo.'but theta urofkwq uidoh, an we havq
just. mentioned.
There is tho'vorid ofﬁtho imginntion,'and
tﬁqgo in tho_ magi-d 02 rcuiity.
our, bodice and hearts urn our
imiés‘mimnt - the only instrument we} 11mm; in our profession.
The World of tho_ imaginaigion given us certain ordui-E to ful-
fill and incorpomjci‘za'
‘
1
.
'mcoxpom'rion or Imezsi’
.
_
~
Lat us my in: bio going to préparo the part of
“ﬁnish
in: can :mo him perfectly in the imagination; bﬁt it
is not yet the whole work.
We have
Ito. incorporate thit; Hamlet
by giving this imaginary Hunloi: our body. otherwise ii: pill.
' remix: only in tho imainaticn. and no am) will be able to
see what our intorﬁre’mtion of Hamlet uctmlly in.
Therefore.
we have to approach our profouniondl technique from two sides.
Pix-at we have to develop our ability to imagine to tho oxtont
I have mentioned. and m.§l~i§|-‘_othor side We have to develop
our bodien. to take thqm fldziiﬁid and to unriéh than.
when
our bodies will become so subtle, than all the inagou \10 cro—
ate in the world of the imagination uili find us u very flexible
and «suitable instrumcmt for incorporating thumuclves into our
body.
Today 1 want to give you Homo oxaraisau for the body.
FEELII‘IG OF EASEI
-mwim


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

m. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
Thoro are four qualiﬁes which we think are very
important and aunt ho developed iniouz‘ bodies.
The first
quality no call ~ﬁr'ooliu'w' of ammo.
That memo that our bodies
'nubt‘ acquire the obility'to ho light‘nnd may, to move freely
and ion able to lose their weight. as it uoro‘.
The body
muot boooao absolutoly light and cosy. to'ouch an ox'tent that
your mm rlill‘ rim into it.
If tho body in light and'
easy. the ioogao will not become otiff. but they 6111 it tho
body lo stiff and What-d.
This io' one-of, tho qualities which
moot be present éontinuouoly. our body olth tho fooling of
dado most 136 ut'our' diopocal nix-myo.
The first ’ooop in to :iako tho guychologicol effort
to dooiro to bacono easy in your body.‘ Try to develop the
ability to dooiro your body to be light and cosy and almost
nifhouﬁHeight.
Firoé ooyohologically - my to youroolfvery
Strongly. "I wont my body to be light Lind oaoy."
When you
are gay and full of joy. you really cxporicnco your body as
if it were light and cosy. and when you are depressed and
tired. you fool I: quite different weight in your body.- so it
in a psychological thing.
But no 1::th not rely on an acci-
dent - we must acquire thio ability on professionalpoplo.
We must have the ability to be gay and light at tho momont wa
desire it.
That in the professional thing.
Now. having the dooiro to become easier in your
body. try to raise your handu up and dorm. and try to pour your


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

#ﬁPE‘n
M. Chekhov
October 5; 1939
donire to become ouoy into your need which you are moving.
Roncmbez‘ that the center from which ﬁen'r area must be moved
in not in tho shoulder; but in tho 'choet.
Exorciom
.
.
.
V
Raise your_ hunde one ems. :Then wait: three D‘topn
forward and ﬂame letopo back.
Then do it only in your imagina-
tion. and realize that you can fly over the space without any
weight.
Believe in youruolvoo no beings which are only pay-
cholegicul twinge - spirits. invisible opirito.
Imagine if
you look at each other that you 000 not only the body' but the
nuperhumn being I don“: one. and this invioible goveenhoe
\- ., «an»
the power to put the body on tho ground.
You must believe in
thin abiii'ty. and only/chin boliof-in thie inviniblo person
will give you the poeer. - with if. you‘oro not a phyeicei
‘ poreon. and you will be motor of your body.‘
Kneol down and
realiZe that you are not felling do-m heavily. but that you
allow yourself to touch the around no if you are on a string.
Lin your bodice dorm like a. veil.
You will meet certain phyﬂ-
icol difficultioe which are inevitable. but try to oyorceme
them by tho poycheiogicdl desire to bocomo caoior and caoior.
Run freely ever the room.
You will get much pleasure Find joy from being able
to govern your body and manage it. boing out of your body at
the some time.
This is a very important effort for the actor,
because it mane that we have our instrument in our nahdo.


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
452 o:
-
4;».-
m. Chekhov
Combat 5. 1939
Junt an a musician has his violin. he takes it and pu’ca it
aside.
We must do the some with our body — when no enter the
stage, we must take it, and when \‘ID finish our life on tho
stage. it must becouo a diffei‘cnt thing.
‘ Nod got up and down with tho music.
The rhythm will
help you.
When going down ﬁnd gating up to the mmic. speak
the words. "clown;. and "up." juut on eating und‘l‘iahtly.
How
WW
only spool: tho Wei-do.
'
I
Still keeping tho desire to ho oauy. take gho h‘onvy
table and move it - through your psychological desire to
bacono ligh’ccr. the table will boCouo light, 1300.
'Thinl: of it
no a table in a fairy tale.
A11 thooo things in mix-y tulon
are born out of thin living in tho world of yoyohology.
Exorcgool
Girlo on one side of the room. boys on tho othor.
and tho table in botuoon.
Porn 3 group under the inﬂuence
of the music. but tho tool: in 23:. tho composition. but only
from the point of View of ligztlltAnnd coco.
Then take into
consideration tho whole apnea and tho two otrdoturoug and
‘
form one group.
FEELING OF FORM:
Thorn are four such qualifion which no must acquire
With regard to our imaginations and our bodies.
I will give
you the comma one now.
It in what we call the t’eoMnPl of form.


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
PAH.
l:1._ chokhov
‘
_
October 5. 1939
.1th an we have to be able to get thu feeling of ease and
mnago and govern our body by it. so we taunt get tho £0011
int; 0: fem.
\70 must always ho able to create a form with
our bodies on the stage.
It must not be at all vague.
We
must alwayu fool that there in {1 different form for stopping
or moving on the 012330.
Tta fooling that we have in our,
private life of a certain vagueness about our body as a. form.
must be discarded on tho-stage.
our body must always be.
conuidorcd as a beautiful form. even if ii:
in; a charactor
part or oven if it in u cripple that we are playing.”bocnuuo
it is u mrvoloua rom-
If it is really ugly. than it is
wrong.
If the fooling 02‘ fora la thorn. it will become beau-
tiful. persuasive. and artistic.
Begin tint by standing still and trying to walk
inq‘lido’ ybumolf with your: ulna, and try to experience your
own body an n definito‘fum.
We have a head as firm and
rounaﬁfom an tho universe. if you will imagine the sky and
the stars and the horizon like a done or cupolu above you.
you will Boo that your head LEI/350nm:- in this big cupolu which
in round. and every part of your head in directed to the stars,
and they are sending thoir rays into your head.
It in n daf-
i'nito fem, and if you will oxpox-ienco this little world which
ybur head builds. you will got the feeling of form.
Try to touch your head with your hands and then
with your mind only - then try to mold this little world with


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
‘x
"(11'
'3
m. Chekhov
October S. 1939
your mind - this microcosm.
Now only with your invisible
hands.
Try to imagine that your head 19 unublo to produce
any 'gcoturoo - you can movo your arm if you want but all tho
gosturen which you try to ‘mko with your face are always
ugly.
.‘
If you try to cxprooo fear ulth your mouth and we-
brows. it is ugly and only a grinaoc.
Thu nature of the
hand and face tfooo not 8.110121 any movement of this kind.
It
in something which cannot nubstituto for our ability to make
gestures with our whole body - that in the thing which no
hove to make gos’curoo with. but not the head.
The bond in
tho form which must be quiet. noblo. and nuot rofloct tho
universe for the audionco, if you don't spoil it with grimcoc.
You will coo that if you don't spoil the beauty of
your race with grit-moon,
a. miracle will happen.
Your little
"univoroo” will become the moot oxproacivo part of your wholo
body bocuuso cumin feelings. onotirmomnd will impulses will
find their way to your face.
The real fooling which will
arise will change your face so that it will bacono cxproooivo.
The mouih ond'eyoo ind Ichcoku and everything will bocone
expressive if you don't force it.
Leave it quiet and noble
und cluboroto the boriv. then the mool'llll boconc a. nonbmno,
a mix-oar, which will vibrato immediately getting tho most
beautiful impulsos from your whole body.
Then your taco and
head will be like a crown on your actor's being which stnrtu
from tho cantor.


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

 
M. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
To get this poieo for your head end face. you have
to get the feeling of fem.
If you are not able +0 imagine
your head like
11 little "universe." you will try to non your
head no something which in duet like your hands or fingers.
and you will try to do thinge wiﬁhib - it is not allowed -
the “un‘inmreo” (1000 not allow it.
Then experience your neck as a column on which this
beautiful "univeroo" ie rooting.
Tho heed and neck belong to
the universe. and the lower part of the body bolonge more to
the earth.
There in something psychologieol or philosophical
’vhieh in like a. noel: bemoan the universe and the earth - thin
coenio “neck" which separates the earth from the univereo.
Thin in eotuolm the theme which all philoeophoro
have dealt with.
You will no? find any philosophy whom the
universe and the earth are mixed together.
Only in rude mt-
orialien or in absence people who stumble on the earth and
are looking to tho ehy no heaven - both oxtn‘oneo have nothing
,
to do with phileoephy or are.
The neck in the connection and again
thin in the meet beautiful thing in the eotnica._conneotion between
‘
‘
earth and airy: Try to imagine those too fez-me on they are. the
universe. and the philosophy - the connection. the bridge between
the univoree and the earth.
The third part of our being - the chest. one. and
hands.
What does the fem of our chest. arms. and hands ex—
prooo?
Ii: expresses a marvelous thing which no other twinge


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

e81
K
m. Chekhov
Octoborjsf‘, 1939
have — it is the freedom on the earth.
Animals do not have
this freedom - they are earthy beings - only man hoe this
freedom.
The chest, arms. and- hands express freedom on the
earth.
If it were not for the earth and that we are on the
earth, \10 might have Wings!
110 convinaglne‘engelio beings
_\1ith imaginary winger; but that is a different thing.
The
head is the universe. and. the noel: is the‘approach to the
earth and the distance between. end the arms end hands and
chest are already the earth. but Sr'eeL You nuat appreciate
,. M . me.
this part of our: body as the human freedom on the earth.
_
“MW
If you 31111 understand o1; theoe parts. of our body ‘
the foreand shape. of it from the point of View 01“ these cosmic
eenneetlons. you will undoretegm instinctively many things
which are so expressive. and we don't 1mm why.
For: instance.
when a person sits with his head in hie hands. why in it so
expressive?
If the head is the shiverso one the hand is the
free will of the earth — it is the moment then the free will
tries to get the depth and height of the universe; end the
universe is bond to thin free hut-An ’boing. and this in what
we can. the process of thinking and meditating en the earth.
’
So each movement and position has a. very deep sense.
if we understand it from the point of vien of its real meaning.
If we put the finger to the nose, we have the free being who
is ridiculing the unitarse.
You can take any position, and
you will Exec that it is absolutely the philooophy of the form


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

 
(h
r»;
,., «my,
‘1“)
' second realm in the realm of tho foolin u.
The thi‘i‘d realm
M. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
of tho human body. no you will get tho desire to explore it
and to fill your form. trying to got doopor and deeper into
the moaning of it.
Then if we try to ponotmto into 11;. Ho
will got the desire to bo pox-feet in our expressions on tho
stage. and we will booomo no 111 from all {ho un—ohaped things
on'tho otago which noun nothirfg or hove only hulfomuaning.
How often wo coo ‘pooplo nailing {tho wrong gouturoo.
If we will MN
study it.‘ we will got the fooling. for it.
The fix-ht realm in tho "wot-1E! of; creative ideas.
Tho‘
in the room of tho will.
‘ It? on the stage. you try to oxprooo
contain idcnu. at: for instance, in “Tho Zonsonsgg“ — “That's:
true." - you must say it with the hood booouoo it bolongo to
tho world oi; loose.
But if you have to Day. "That's true.”
with your' hood. and you myo certain feelings at thin time.
lot um say you want to express tho fooling of oxcitonmt. you
must add the will. you can. we your foot or logo and then it
will be Juoﬁificd.
This dons not moon that you have to remember all those
thingo in you; work - that would be wrong.
I toll you only
no that you will work upon thooo ideas. and {may will becomo
your instinct — then they will be useful to you.
You can't
say,
"oh. how terrible." with your hand only. but you can say
1% with your hands and fingers-l
If you say. for instance.
”I
don't allow him to do it.“ you can uuo your logo and foot 0-0
an expression of the will.


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

 
"1‘:
{V2
2.:
H. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
1 divided those parts only to give you the min
realm of the three yarto. but they are always interrelated.
They all go together and moot. but they can go together only
if you will develop the {matinee that this is the world of
ideas. this 1:: the world. of roonnga. and this in the worm
of the 11111.
When you try to develop this inotinct. you
will bring together all three realms in the moot beautiful
expresoive and profound way.
That in what I want to tell you
about tho'fom in general.
Now try to express the gem of
your body.
I
'
I
I
Everything can be and 12(th be pointed out from dif-
ferent points of view, and you must get accustomed to it.
We
moot not fix spiritual truth no we fix tablet: and chairo.
Thin freedom nun be acquired. otherwise we will never free
ourselveo from the world of chairs and tables.
moraine:
Now move your bodice no a torn. forward and beck,
then lift your hands and arms and move forward and back. then
rm over the floor. being aware every moment that it ie a
form you are moving.
If you will do this with the some eon-
centrotien that we try to get in our lessons. then it will
become instinctive. and it will nerve you on the stage on
that the audience will be mystified by your acting, your
expressive acting. so fully experienced and expressive.
They
”1447' u. .


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

 
“259%
ms, Chekhov
October 5. 1939
will not understand what it in. but you must understand that
those a'ro different abilities which \70 are trying to develop
and turn them into inatinc‘cs.
If my do not have this instinct.
the whole acting in an ugly no a grimco. if it is not inspired.
The third part of our being ~ the lower part of our
body.
This in the connection to the earth.
We are ablq to
possum: the earth with thio port of our body.
We are hero
doﬂnitaiy on the earth. but wo are no longer as free as no
word in the amo.‘
Tho loner port or our body makes us earth
hningo.
If we consider the form of our foot anti logo from
this point of view. we shall one the following thing“ tho
construction of the plant in tho some 1 the room touéh the
earth. and tho‘i‘lowcr touohoo tho cun.l,xbut tho difference in
that the plant cannot move. but tho hij'an boing can. Men will
find thot in thin moat earthy-part of tho human ‘bcfing, we have
our freedom.
Thqplrmt’hao no freedom — it cannot move - but
we can move, and we are from in ouf'connection with the earth.
This in essentially important for us at: aotors_
because our legs and foot have to express on tho stage uvory-
thing we need to oxproun in connection with the earth.
For
instance. if the character is mtorialistic. no must oxproou
it with our logo.
If tho person in superficial. we have to
oxprezm it with our logo.
We cannot express ideas very much
with our legs and foot.
We can oxphess the character: from the
point of view of his connection to the earth. but with our


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

 
03%
m. Chekhov
October 5. 1939
arms he can cxprcuu the connection of the character to the
earth and to. tho world of ideas. and with our head we can
express only the highest which in given in the play or the
character-
How my to oxporioncd your body as a. form from this
point of View.
Loo): with your mind'o oyo 6n your body. and
‘try ":0 got the meaning of L111 tho parts.
The farm in connect—
ion with $110 confo'n’c.
The whole philosophy of the human being:
