

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

i-‘xichael Chekhov
February 2a.,
1938
STYLE - RHYTHHICAL EVENTS
CHARACTERIZATION
PSYCHOLOGICAL GESTURE
STYLE - RHYTHNICAL EVENTS:
Style from the point of View of rhythm.
Each
rhythmical avcnt has, as we know, a beginning and an end —
what is in the middle we will leave for tho_moment.
But
there is a beginning and an end, and the feeling of the
whole is absolutely connected with this feeling of the be—
ginning and tho end.
The rhythmical event can embrace
everything, or it canto one small movement of the thinr.
From the rhythmical point of view the small movement can
be as precious as the big movement.
if it has a beginning
and an end.
From this point of View we will move and speak
and do everything in Snanish Evenin
, and wc will experi-
ence everything as a rhythmical something.
Snanish Evening:
The line of the development of the m cic in this
play is a very important one, and we must try to trace it.
The magician will show us some tricks, which we must de-
velop by means of the bridges and transitions in between.
which will lead us from the state of not.being attracted
to him to being more and more concentrated on the things he
shows us.
Then to will begin to guess that there is some
power behind this, and will develop this psychological line


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

m. Chekhov
February 21;, 1938
in quite a mystical mood.
Then we will lead it to the mo-
ment when the influence of the showman is not only confined
to his tricks. but everybody becomes more and more influ-
enced, and a line will be developed so that everybody is
dependent upon him.
This line is very important for every—
body and everything in this play.
For the showman, the line
is not to be able to show anything, and tho idea to hide
himself must be there.
This must gradually lead to the
magical line-
For the moment lcsve style,
characters and every-
thing. and try only to trace the nsycholoaical line.
One
thing will help us - a psychological gesture which we will
not elaborate, but the idea of it will be enough.
The gas-
ture of the showman is that from a certain point in his
chest, which is very contracted. ho expands more and more.
The crowd is distracted - the gesture is everywhere - they
are touching vaguely everything in the world around them.
Then more and more concentration on the physical part of
the showman's tricks, and then more participation in the
pseudo-spiritual world. and then the gesture of submission.
CHARACTERIZATION:
J
our Phantoms - [The PossessodWI
There are two different and on osite psycholog-
ical gestures of two heroes in this play.
The most compli-


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

H. Chekhov
February- 214,
1938
cated, and tortured. and striving person
is the psychology
of Nicholas.
In him we fee; that behind this figure are
standing different forces. which wont to have possession
of this human soul.
He himself is the place on which these
different powers meet and have their fight.
Complicated
psychological situations arise from those powers. which
meet themselves in him: from one side and from another side,
his own ego resists in order to preserve its own individu-
ality.
Therefore. the picture of Nicholas's soul is so ex-
tremely complicated - he himself, and powers in him.
We
shall go deeper and deeper into the psychology of this man.
Today we shall imagine some powers around him and in him.
and his own power as an individual. and all of them are
fighting with each other.
Quite an opposite character in the play is the
bridegroom, the officer.
There is no fight. no complica-
tion inside him.
he is quite the opposite character to
Hicholas - two extremes.
He has no questions inside him.
Everything for him is clear and obvious.
Everything is
clear for his understanding. and his action.
He always
knows what to do and what not to do.
If the psychological
gesture of Nicholas's character is a very complicated group
of gestures which are combined.
so the psychological ges-
ture of the bridegroom. we may say.
is absolutely straight
forward — forward to the life - the gesture of holding.
the


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

m. Chekhov
February 2h, 1938
gesture of moving absolutely straight, and this is the beauty
of the character.
\
PSYCHOLOGICAL GESTURE!
we shall try to explore the meeting between these
two characters. on the basis of these different gestures -
one extremely complicated. another extremely straight.
In
this case Nicholas does not apply this gesture because the
whole collision between the two characters is toocbvious,
too simple.
Nicholas simply denies the other person in—
wardly - he does not exist for him.
This is perhaps the
only scene when Nicholas shows the quality of disinterest.
He ignores the officer.
Although the person is standing
before him. he is still alone.
The officer must explore
the line of straight on. straight forward.
Just before this scene was the scene between
Nicholas and Lisa, when she told him that she hated him.
She persuades him to remember his revolutionary Fast. and
to take part very actively in the Society of the spy.
The
officer always follows Lisa. and is always ready to help
her. to save her.
to preserve her from all difficulties.
Nicholas is sitting in his room and the officer stands be-
fore him and tries to make everything clear.
We feel the
music between these two opposite characters.
This is the
beauty of this scene.
The key to Nicholas's character is this — one side


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

m. Chekhov
February 24,
1938
of his character is that he pretends to be very interested
in the person he is talking 1m, but he is absolutely disin-
terested inside himself.
Sometimes he really disappears.
no is "as if“ here.
He hears and yet he does not hear.
withdrawn.
Under this guise he has different colors.
He
must be at the limit to be here and not to be here.
Per-
haps he will be awakened and perhaps not.
with his mother
at some moments there is a complete breakthrough, and in
the scene with the beggar girl when he curses her. he
breaks through.
The Spy's idea is to get rid of the girl
because her influence leads Nicholas to certain spiritual
feelings and ideas, which are dangerous for his revolution-
ary activity.
He has decided to substitue Lisa for the girl
and thus get Nicholas again in his power.
