

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
If)
a
n
THE FUTURE OF THE CHEKHOV THEATRE STUDIO
New York, December 11.
l9bl
Statement made to the members or the
Chekhov Theatre Studio and the Chekhov
Theatre Players by Michael Chekhov.
The things I have to tell you are the result of my
long obeervﬁtion and careful thoughts about our work and life
together.
I have come to a certain firm decision which I am
going to tell you and to explain the reasono for it.
Our present group has come to a crinis — that means
to the point where things cannot remain no they are and have
either to go down and perish or to achieve new. higher
standards.
The general opinion of unprejudiced people around us
almost unanimously acknowledgee our slow and steady growth.
and the results of our efforts.
But although I have also
stated it on several occasions.
I must tell you that I am not
quite in agreement with this opinion.
The progresu which we
all see seems to me purely accidental.
our succeeooo and
failures - I don't mean on Broadway but in our everyday work
and series of porformanceo - have no other grounds than
accidental moods, circumstances. personal psychological states.
etc.
The common, usual habit of acting in what gives the
impression that our actors are developing. but there is no
definite aim and no artistic principleDI no methodical self-
training in our group.


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

o
DU
(W
 
\ b V S
M. Chekhov
_ 2 _
December 11, 1941
For years now I have tried to use the means of
encouraging, praising. repeating, reminding you of the aims,
explaining the significance of technique and methodical work.
given repeated hinto of the connections which our theatre
should have to tho preoent grave state of the life of humanity
and its culture.
Even jokingly l have given ono or the other
member of our group hintu which.
if properly understood, would
lead this or that member to think whether he was going the way
I had in mind for the Chekhov Theatre Studio.
But I must say
now that it has not helped at all. or at least very little.
The aim of the theatre which I mean to develop is
much more far-reaching than this or that particular performance
or success or failure on Broadway.
The aim I have so often
spoken about is to create. by a common effort, a new cultural
factor, first in pur own country and then in other countries.
I have spoken very often about you as ”pioneers." hoping that
you would once understand this appeal of mine and decido to
clarify in your own mindo the aim I have mentioned above.
But
it has not happenod.
Lot me take a few examples.
The group - the members
of which consider themoelveo to be able to deny completely the
main principles of artistic toehniquo,or to deny part of it -
show clearly that they are pursuing their own personal dime,
regardless of what is being aimed at.
or what are thocfforts of
those who have the burden of the artistic leadership to carry.
For every one of us - unless we close our eyes on
purpose - it is clear that such terms as "atmosphere.“


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
v"l\.
33L‘
‘3. a? ,c
n. Chekhov
— 3 '
December 11. 1941
"objective," "radiation." "activity." ”group feelings,“
“nighificanco.” “fouling of ease," etc. etc” as well as the
method of speech and Eurhythny.
together with all other excr-
cinoo and principles roprcuented by our Method. all these
things remain only empty wordo and never seem to me to become
real and concre‘to means of developing new qualities of acting.
For everyone it becomes immediately clear that our
porfomancoo - if they are not kept? again and again by
trcnondouo effort on the part of the directors and teachers —
are inclined to become lower and lower in standard, whereby
they decline with much more intensity than they rice.
I
Thom,- and many other facts of greater and smaller
dimensions. chow clearly that thoro is no ground. no basis
upon which our work ctsndo.
There in no Spine for our exist-
onco. neither in clear understanding of tho aim. nor in
assuming tho proper technique of acting.
The Method which our
theatre roproccnto. and tho idea of becoming a pioneering
group which will bring a new value into tho cultural life,
is
tho only thing which can aolvo the crisis in the positive sense.
waiting
I have been hoping and truistingmworking, oven plead-
ing, stressing the poaitivo side. and sometimes cvun hiding
from you the true picture which has grown up in my mind.
From
now on thin kind of leadership muct bo rejected by me, and
this for your ovm sakc.‘ for the sake of the Chekhov Theatre
Studio. and for WW sake as well.
Things must be spoken out
clearly and the choice made by all of you. or by you individu-
ally. knowing that my way is chosen and cannot be changed.


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
M. Chbkhov
_ u _
I shall find the energy to work only if I shall be
able to have a group of people who will be willing to go
along the lines I have drafted. who will consider themselves
as students.
at: long as they have not really acquired the
technique of acting which has already been given to them. and
that which hao still to be given - which is perhaps more
important than anything which has been given up until now.
with the present attitude of the group towards practical work.
I have no hope over 'to approach this second more important and
significant part of the work.
The present group is living under the illusion that
they m the aim and can manage the technique.
Those people
who want to create the theatre along these right lines. must
not only agree
with it in principle but must decide to \1_or_k_
upon the Method. upon each point of the Method. nor}: upon the
BpGOCh technique and mrhythny, and all the things which the
Chekhov Theatre Studio represents. and for which daily practice
will be required.
No longer can the individual hophazard approach be
tolerated.
in the sense that so and so many membei‘s of the
groug deny those principles and rely upon their accidental
capacity for achievement.
'i‘he psychology must he changed to
a more professional one.
As. for instance. that of the student
of music. mathematics, architecture. or any branch of science.
in which the pupil realized that he would only appear humorouo
if he went to the classroom for so many years and did nothing
but deny the fundamental principles of the teaching and wasted
\
December 11, 1§41
U


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
0-:
in
(r,
M. Chekhov
- 5 -
December 11, 1941
his time in producing amateurish pieces of work on his own.
just so it happens. accidentally. day after day.
Such
psychology has been common in the theatre. but we cannot
make any use of it.
Under the present circumstances I can no longer pre-
tend that I am doing the work which is objectively valuable.
I cannot see the students and the actors of tho Chekhov
Theatre Studio organization losing their time day after day
and forcing me to waste my time.
Whatever successes or
failures the Chekhov Theatre Studio may have had in the past.
it was always a gamble.
What is needed now is a fer-rooching
aim and the concentrated energy to achieve it practically.
I know only too well that in whatever words I try
to express myself now.
I will not change the minds of people
who have not yet arrived at such an approsch to the problem.
I no longer speak with the desire to persuade you. Or to plead
with you. my only aim is to say that a new phase has begun,and
it must be decided inside of yourselves whether you are ripe
enough and willing to etart this new phase, sacrificing many
things for this aim and for practical work day after day.
Often I have heard it said that many sacrifices have
beennmgaoeby members of our group.
I don't doubt that such
sacrifices have taken place. but I doubt whether it is clear
enough to some of our people that if they choose between two
attractive things and drop one for the sake of the other,
it
in not a sacrifice.
They follow the thing which attracts them
most and satisfy themselves by choosing the best and most


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
F235
\v?;
u. Chekhov
_ 6 _
December 11. 1941
attractive.
I doubt whether in all cases it has been a real
laacrifico. which in marked byttho fact that the pereon does
what he finds right and good. and does it in spite of certain
unpleasant resulte for himself.
The sacrifice about which I speak in this new phase
is the sacrifice of one'o whole energy for the work. for
studying the method. the speech. the Eurhythmy.
inepite or
unpleasant. tiring. and. at first. boring experiences which
may overwhelm one.
I think this must be the psychology of
the student of muoic. architecture or science. when the student
begins to hate his ecalee and exercises. although he knows
that without them he cannot hope to become anything but
amateur.
some of you may express the doubt whether this is the
right time to speak about such things. when the whole of
humanity is swamped by bigger and really tragic events.
In
this case I shall answer that just becauee it is so. we have
no more time to flounder vaguely and to maintain the psychology
of an accidental, amateurish approach to our work.
If this is
not the right moment. then the theatre. as such.
has no right
to exist at all.
After the war. constructive eultuéal work
will flourish with tremendous power. with new activity und
impulse.
Shall the theatre at this time of growth remain
behind?
There is.
of course.
a great difference between your
psychology and mine.
You. as young people.
feel naturally that
eternity lies before you. whereas I feel that my time is limited.


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
L59
H. Chekhov
- 7 -
December 11, 1941
You are right in your feelings. and I am right in mine.
Neither of us has to change this kind of feeling for the
urgency of life. but apart from both of us. you and I have
one thing in common, which is our sound intellect.
Surely
we can meet in shaping certainecommon aims. principles. and
ways of achieving them practically without living in illusions.
Our intellects must tell us that we are. young and
old alike.
living in the some historical moment, and neither
the war time nor the post—war time will reckon with our
different psychologies.
The cultural demands of humanity
places its requirements before young and old equally.
four
psychology of having indefinite time before you. and my
psychology of having only a little time can both be very
useful.
inspiring. and instigating if We shall understand and
agree upon things in our minds.
This is what I call to keep
pace with the times.
The aims and principles of the Chekhov Theatre
Studio. an I am sure you understand.
cannot depend upon any
group of people.
The Chekhov Theatre Studio shall exist in
this or that form. maintaining the principles in which it finds
its justification for existence.
Hy effort to appeal to the
group by creating a so-eallcd "nucleus" or Advisory Committee.
has to my mind failed even before starting to function.
I
recognize my mistake in having forcibly elected people to such
a Committee.
I do not see any further necessity for such a
forcibly—formed organization.
A kind of Advisory Committee
will arise soundly. and organically, only from the group of


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

 
‘
'- \* v 9
383$
»
m. Chekhov
' 3 '
December 11. 1941
people who are able to accept for themselves all the artistic
principles and aims I have spoken of before.
If the new phase
of the Chekhov Theatre Studio will occur.
starting from
tomorrow_or in one year's time. or whenever it is.
it will
crystalize out of itself such a Committee in the future.
I
would prefer to wait for this moment rather than to live also
in this other illusion.
One more thing must be known. and the connection
found to it, by everyone who will want to join the Chekhov
Theatre Studio. new or in the future.
This new phase of the
work is the question of the repertory.
A6 long as I am repre-
senting the artistic side or the work,
I cannot help feeling
that our main source of artistic material must be Shakespeare.
As
I have often told you. there is no other author who has
found the words,
emotions. and situations worthy of our present
life.
The prejudice concerning Shakespeare. which is so widely
spread among the general public. may be a great handicap for
yopular success at first, but there is no other way than to
fight such prejudice, because as soon as the audience sees our
productions of Shakespeare. they recognize them in spite of the
influence of short-sighted. stiff-minded. authoratative people.
What the present audience needs is Shakespeare.
What the present audience thinks it needs is quite a different
thing - it is light.
easily digested, cheap. amusing perform—
ances.
Surely there are enough theatres capable of doing
this so that we do not need to increase their number by our
efforts.
I cannot force myself to satisfy such false needs —


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
{-Xﬂé
\§\ fl:
H. Chekhov
- 9 -
December 11, 1941
there is no other way for me than to follow my ﬁalief us it
lives in my mind.
I would never deny any modern play if it could ﬁe
worthy of our times, but so long as such a play does not exist.
I cannot be so lavish an to waste the time of the members of
the theatre which I am hoping to shape in accordance with our
time.
There are.
of course. somo great masters whose standards
are close to Shakespeare. and I am sure We will tako them into
our repertory. too.
Besides,
if I have any vision about the
future theatre at all.
I do sec the glory of the theatre which
has taken the great and honorable task of reviving éhakespeare
and rediscovering hio endless significance and beauty,
starting
its work at tho time when Shakespeare is so denied.
This point makes it clear again that a new standard
of acting. and a new undorstanding and appreciation of what
tho cultural aims of such a theatre as ours should be. are
needed for presenting such a great rcportoiﬁ.
,
To conclude these words I would say:
.look beyond
our theatre. and you will see the tough nut of Broadway.
Look
insido of our group, and you will see what precarious ways we
are taking. hoping to crack this tough nut.. If you will do
so. you will understand why I say that the time for compromise
for myself and my theatre has gone forever.
by gratitude to tho Elmhirot family for their confi-
dence and the financial sacrifices they have made. hoping to
get greater results than individual performances and accidental


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
2351?.
“atﬂui
3.1. Chekhov
- 10 -
member 11, 1941
successes. can be expreesed only by holding fast to the
principle of a practical and painstaking approach to the
ideal.
in a quick tempo similar to that 02 our life tcday.
If such a group of people will not he found.
I will be the
first to ask Beatrice and these who help us.
to stop their
support.
If you want to consider my words at all.
I should
like to ask you to make your decisions moat carefully and
sincerely because another period of illusions cannot be
accepted. and the whole thing will fall apart immediately if
the problem is ﬁaken superficially.
In this case,
it would
be better to stop our work now. than to wait for another such
crisis.
