

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

 
1‘3\0 if
“c at:
Michael Chekhov
January 29.
19150
THE OBJECTIVE
CONSCIOUSNESS OF ONBSE’LF
OUR METHOD
CONCENTRATION
mm
Shakespeare
'
King Lear
THE omnchvm
Rcalizu what it memo to or: on a. chair with your
whole being f to have the fooling of your whole being. your
body and your psychology.
‘l'lhn’: doos limit): to nit?
Xour
whole boingvia occupiod with 1%.
ﬂow take the ohjoctivo to
got up - lunodlutow your whole hoing becomes. different. some;
thing like an electric apart: changes your being.
To have tho
desire to get up netmu to have D. certain change in your whole
being.
Consoioumcos of 01105012 -
his in tho objectivn.
mud in the tocquuo for the o’baocuvo.
CONSCIOUSNESS 0F, ONESELPI
How appreciate tho difforonco you fool between the
timo when you are only sitting and the time when you take tho
objectivo to got up.
A curtain difference in there.
It can
bo very obvious althoogh the difference may ho a very blight
one. a very fine one.
It in not pouniblo to get up from
(ﬁtting without the objccﬂvo to gotmpa
Tho chmgc in your
whole being is very slight. but tho, nogult is tremendous.
Fran thin small and subtle change 1h our being; deponds the
action - oithor we can't get up,
02" we can.
In this ample


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

 
“and“
no?$
L}. Chekhov
January 29. 1940
example we use that tho action dopendu entirely upon the
objective.
Another. and
a. bottom, example:
how can we not on the
stage, spook tho wordo. and fulﬁll our business without hav-
ing an objective?
\‘lhon yet; 313ch linou without an objoctivo.
it is a. similar coco to the oituntion of gotting up without
any objective.
For a person who has no fooling for the theatre.
it in Juot an ugly on to got up with an objective. being pushoo 5
up._
It in a fine fooling for: our profonnion.
_
’ Thin absurdity you must tonliao.
When an actor in
on tho stage without such objectivou.
it io the most hateful
things' On tho stage he coo notorc who my be very fine and
uubtio poopio in daily life. but on thootugo the nano poroon
baconoa a. fool because he thinkn that on tho‘ntago one can
live with uitmlo hurrn abolition.
To dooiro uomothing. or in
our words. to have the objective- aotorn allow tnonoolvon to
be half human boingo when they oxiot on tho stage without the
objective.
It in; a. certain kind of chamoloncmooo or nakodnouo.
Wu appear on tho stage obaolutoly burn. mid think \10 are inter-
acting for the audience.
when we are without objectives on
tho stage, we are ugly because our whole body becomao stupid.
Without the objective the body becomon half a corpso.
Thom
in no alternative o if you-arc on tho stage. you must be there
with an objectivo.
With your conaciousnoua.
"walk" inside your body and
mac whether: it in filled with tho objective. with this process


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

 
e305
M. Chekhov
Jummry 29,
19150
of Gifting.
The objective prepares the ground for the speech.
or the notion. whatever it is.
It prepares the ground to:-
tho ability to not.
when we develop thin ability. we will
see that. olthough we have to name out different deeireo. all
the horde we arousing for naming the objective are actually
terribly primitive and rude. in comparison with the live
proceeo which is going on in us when we have the objective and
different kindeof objectives and nuances.
We cannot actually
describe the objective with human werde becaueo it is so fine
and subtle - it in no subtle no music.
Those olighb nuance: which we can experience in
oureelvoe when changing the objective - these alight differeneeo -
as? be useful for us only if we awaken ‘co on underutanding of
what the objective really in.
Because if we don't develop thin
fine feeling for the eb1ectivo. \10 cannot Iknov that there are
pol-nape trio hxmdred objoeth'oo for. "I want to get up.“
There
area iimitlooo number 01’ objectiveo. and they are no ﬁne and
Dubtlo and inspiring if we are able to be more of thug-3‘.
Exorcism
.
Take the objective.
"I want to get up."
Now take
the objective.
"I want to get up und'pick up the box."
The
enormous: of yourself in different.
ﬂow keep the objective
and be aware of another thing - the objective in like life,
it is absolutely flexible.
cur soul will respond to this
Blight difference. and we must kill
11 certain abutmct feeling


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

 
W06
L1. Chekhov
January 29'.
19140
for the abductive. a certain general fueling.
a. certain scheme.
It munt ho concrete — the objective "in general” does not
exit.
"1 Mint to get up“
:- oachvtiznc tho objective is nur-
roundod by so many maniac; and‘thcy will mcpii‘u you for
acting if you have limo)». an inner ear or eye \G'hitih will dia-
cover all the nunncou. rather than to get up
i
". gﬁmoral."
whether you mm mm. of onoggy or May. whether it
is in tho morning or in the evening. cvnrything .nurrounding
tho whole circle of'circmxgﬁancou Irina-an oi- ummofm
5.3“”?
thing creator: the nuwcoﬁin every (maneuver
Now» try to
remember your pxpcricﬁco an the ﬁtaga when xou 1:601: tho
objoictiva. but it was “in igcn'orél“ - it'uns no.1: tho objective
for'thio particular play or cm'ractcr.
OUR MBTHODI
‘
When we have 1:111: philiw. we will discover inst.
as uctorc. rm bin-'0 muchifﬁnor than \10 soon‘to ho.
Whit price
db you have to pay for this?
A little affort to exdrciso the
objective.
And the ooucmd discovery will be; that we can become
finer and finor.
Why 116?: do it? Sonotineu you also effort!)-
but you are floundering with your efforts. instead of taking
"some point ofﬁne 1530+.th and making an effort. you make the
effort “in general.“
By taking some point.-of tho ran-mod, you
willcconomizo your power - the other way lucid: =to a certain
dissipation of your morgy.
Ono effort in absolutely conscious.
the other is vague and useless.
<4.”—


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

 
8‘05
"1
b2. Chekhov
January 29. 19..-
You can take the objective blatantly.
You must
realize that there are eimplu objectivce nnci complicated
"objectives.” Ono obdpctive my be to get up..while the other
may be. for inetun‘co. at rho instant when Hamlet seen the
ghost on the 2-002 of the 9:51:10.
- Let us say that Hanlctﬂqwm
objective in. "I'want te evaluate: the reality or the non-
reality or these, powers.”
I I1: scene to be' more difficult than.
“I want to get up.“ but if you really get the technique of
getting the objective in your whole being, yen will eco that
there are no difficult objectivee.Everything in duet an caey
an to' get up. and when we realize this miracle. we will
become abeelutcly happy (:11 the stage.
Prefceeere ei'peychelagy. in analyzing thin. may
find it eeeplicaced aha aiffieulv. but they are mtollectualu
and not artiets. 'Ae artiste. we grasp the thing as a whole.
not as professors of psychology but an boinge who have a
opecial organ. to be able to grasp poychologieal events as
they are with. our whole being and turn them into the objective.
M: the moment when you begin to unaMe withdy’ﬁhere are such
currents in the theatre - when yer: begin; tii‘tﬁlﬁ3375211“ yeur
brain what Hamlet experiences. you will get the feeling that
it ie impeeeiblo to perform it because ii: ie' no terribly
complex.
But he have 'our way. which in to grasp the psyche-
loglcal event as a whole. with our whole being. and the event
will become in us the will to act and not to think.
It in
the mystery of the objective.
feX‘J


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

 
N05
:5 \(LC':
M. Chekhov
Jnnuazv 29. 1940
If We are able to cmerience the objective in our
being. we will be able immediately to discover thin marvelous
thing. which in to he able to. acﬁthe meet So-callad compli—
,'cated peychelegical event Boone whole thing which no can
mallow no it in and pour it out in our whole being and will
and everything which no coil our acter'e mature.
When we get
to this: point. no will. ueo that more are no difficult objec—
tivee.
Thcylute all Just no einplo no. "I vanii to get up.“
coxemmwnou .
-
.
'
~
Thin-deco not mean ﬂint We have ie be primitive in
our acting;
It means to Ibecene concrete - you have simply
#10 be concentroted - to-‘be able to be nlmyo concentrated on
something is part of our Method.
If you are concentrated en
this ovenf; of the parlors of the ghost in the Hamlet scene.
than you cannot do it prinitively or bluntly.
If we are
concentrated on the peweru of the ghost. than we will get
the ability to group the whole eta-celled Complicated psycho-
logy in one grip of our will - where the objective site — end
we will immediately reset on it;
If you will imagine - for the sake of exact-aiming
the power of cancontmtien - that your hchrt is growing no
large an the whole earth. you will nee that everything is
included in your heart. and everything in near to you.
There
will be nothing between you. and you will come to a certain
new kind of \mdorumnding of beings or proceeeeo in the


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

 
0:995
_ “Q5;
id. Chekhov
January 29. 19M
universe. and thin will lead. us to the concentration We
speak about.
You cannot be mconeentmtod if thinge are included
in your heart and ite boeutiful rhythms.
Try to do thin for
the sake of eonoentmtion. end this come concentration will
bring to you the Queer-standing of everything.
with our W
special ability oo‘oonccnnrato.ond to turn everything into
objectivee. 610 can understand Hamlet in one instant.
Bach
instant will be u now \mdoretending. end for no there will
oxiot twenty Hanlotet and each of then fullof wisdom. whereae
the professor of psychology will be able to write about only
one Hamlet in his life.
_
'-
Therefore. you nue‘e understand the objective, or
concentracion. with yourwhole heing if we are to be meters
oi‘ ovew'thin'g - oureolvoe and our abiliﬁocr1511 be fully
developed and motioning.
But if we don‘t take the objective
with our whole being. then we will only take it with our
brain. and our experience will become wallet and 81131102“.
Then
you will become interested only in the historical eourooe of
Ho'nlet.
I "here is no limit to thie kind of investigation. but
’7'
for-no it must neon Hamlet or 512151.532. without any neurone.
What in it for on?
Ezpnnd your heart to §Mkeepoare‘o imgee.
and you will 000 this orehetypel of eonefhlng'meving through
the world - King Lear losing hie body throughthlzﬁthe world
and mining King of the spiritual kingdom.


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

MOE
 
N. Chekhov
January 29. 1940
If we will take all the ﬁaintu at our Method with
thin interpretation. than we will see ‘uhoro the meaning» lieu.
Tho objcqtivo as much is‘n‘othing. but lvhc'n' you viii}. got it.
how your mlcnt-u will flourish - this in the only aim.
Of
course. the fulfilling of the objective will always 170 dif—
ferent to what we have noon in our imagination.”
We must
always be prepared to have the procanu of fulfilling fchc
objective b.° not exactly as we have imagiz‘iod.
It can ovpgv..
ho tamed to éor’tain ploa'mnt nmcco.’ But the atrongor the
objective liven in us. the 1013:: other thinga will disturb uu.
There an actor; who don't know what the objective
in.‘ and they are foxy-often looking for what diathrbu than
becauuo aumothing nun-k be done on tho stage: and if the actor
hat: nothing to do. he mat subntituto something. so he looks
for obstacleu to diacard.
8m: the min obstacle which situ
in the auto:- himnolf will never be discérdod.
The abdoctivo.
and the ability to have the objective. obviates this nocauuity
to diacnrd "as if” diotutbing oloucms.
If you will'opcn your heart to Hamlet. you will coo
that ho isyour hrothor.
How in1:0 the scene whom he is moot-
ing the ghost of his father.1
Imagine this strange thing which
is not smoke or light or ﬂash. but uonothing very cohcroto
approaches him ~ he~ seen it, and he does not 800 it. E
approaches.
New look how Hamlet utrotchoo hiu payoholagical
foolora to this souo’ching which approaohoa him.
Ho trim to


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

 
m. Chekhov
January 29. 19%
touch it, and than Hamlet npohko for the first time the
mm; "ﬁpthhr."
Have thin picture no full as possible with
your ohen heul‘f and soul.
Nov tho objective is.
{'1 want to
evaluate the manly."
11*. may not be fulfilled at the
moment. hut it pan pa fulfilled gradually.
‘
.05? course. the actor can diminish everything to
him mm hhthingnopu. but he can also try to grow up to the
grant-nose of other loadoho in our profession.
If uo choose
the latiur. we mum: do it absolutely scientifically 7 this
ozucmana of the scientist will lead. us to tho grand-zen pos—
siblo urtiutlc‘frondon‘uhich dons not lie in floundering but
in having a definite ground mdor our font.
Ylhon the ground
in theirs; which we have olubomzod with great effort and with
a caréful scientific approach, than no can fly bocauno ”0.319"?
the grcliund from which we can fly.
.
We have tried to undorutand the objective. ﬁrm;
its nMuru. then the: \mdoratandinq that all objectives are
an nimpla as each other.
How we must elaborate this ability
to grasp the objective as a whole ﬁiing and to undode that
all ynychologieo are simple once uol are able to gnu-p then.
We have been given such mawolohu qﬁrcxinutancoo
hero. and we :1th ammorr thin destiny by using this qLiiot and
ﬁance and happineaa to work no 1:th 'when dautiny will take
thin from no. we will not have niﬁsad the Opportunity to do
I
all that we can.
If we do hot appreciate i‘c now. no will


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

 
L1. Chekhov
January 29'.
19150
suffer later on.,
Dentiny never given anything without the
hapojhm; the human being will realise the meaning of what
it 5.3.
So use your time for tho worn.
